I’ve been dealing with this for as long as I can remember. I’ve just recently decided to do some research on mental and verbal abuse between a parent and child. I’m adopted and I’ve also read online that kids who are adopted may have attachment problems when they get older and may have problems establishing relationships for fear of rejection. Also, the child might not be “cuddly or touchy-feely” my mom constantly TELLS me, how much I don’t love her because I never hug her. She doesn’t even ask me if I love her or not… she tells me I don’t. Tonight, we were driving home and she told me that I have no sympathy or empathy for anyone and that if she was laying in the road that I would run over her. And she talks over me every time I try and justify that she’s wrong. Back to the adoption thing, she tells me how my parents must’ve been murders and liars and ****** because I’m nothing like her and how she’s raised me. I didn’t turn out right. She says she’s going to send me away to a boarding school and goes, “If you don’t want to be here so bad, if you hate me so much that you have to hurt me then just go away! I’ll take a second loan on the house; just go away to a boarding school!” when I tell her that I don’t want to leave she just says, “I can never tell with you, you always act so depressed.” She says she’s going to send me back to the orphanage and that she didn’t have to love me, she doesn’t have to love me… and that she doesn’t. So I tell her that I don’t love her either. But I do because, she’s my mom and she’s not always so mean. She gets really mad at me for not cleaning my room and miscommunications and calls me stupid and a ***** and tells me I’m going to hell where all the rapists and murders are because I didn’t clean my room. Sometimes she’s really nice and buys me things, she’s a school teacher and a very smart person. I think she’s just very very stressed because after she gets mad and does all these mean things she calls me into her room and talks to me more nicely. She doesn’t apologize, but I never noticed until now and she says that I’m smart but she doesn’t know why I do such stupid things. And she twists my words when shes calm and says, “I know exactly what I said, I didn’t call you stupid I said you act stupid.” My friends have noticed too, and their parents have noticed that my mom is very controlling, I have to call her everynight I’m at a friend’s house, even when I’m not staying over or she gets very mad. “I asked you to do one simple thing and you forgot, you never remember a damn thing!”  My friends notice my mom blaming me for everything, everything. When they mention it to me I get defensive and brush it off like nothing. Don’t even get me started on grades in school… 
 I read that people who are mentally abused grow up to be violent or temperamental or just have low self esteem and confidence. But I don’t have low self esteem and a lack of confidence. I have a lot of friends and everyone things I’m super funny and nice and pretty artistic. I only think I’m dumb and worthless right after the verbal abuse… but the next day being “dumb and worthless” isn’t the only thing I think about. Also my mom gets super mad and then there’s like a two day period of walking on egg shells and minor peace and then she explodes again and then tells me how much she loves me. She threatens to call the police to have them come and talk to me about being a bad child and tells me I should go to a shrink because “Normal people don’t think” the way I do or Act the way I do or Talk… And she yells at me for not making her a card that says “sorry” on the front for what I did wrong. My grandfather died and she said “When my grandpa died I wrote my parents a letter saying how much I loved him and how much I respected him and miss him. What do I get from you!? Nothing! I would think that you know by now.”
My question Is… Since it’s not (regular every day) verbal abuse…. And since I’m not showing any signs of a verbal abuse victim… do I count as a verbal abuse victim? What do I do…? I love my mom:P even if she tells me I don’t, I do.