First off, let me tell you a little bit about myself. I am 14 years old, I enjoy skateboarding (which I am not very good at), playing guitar, reading, and writing music. My favorite authors are Kurt Vonnegut, Stephen King, and Edgar Allan Poe. Music is one of my favorite things in life although I don't consider it to be my life, mainly because the majority of people who say those kinds of things listen to meaningless music anyway. My favorite music is primarily alternative. I'm not talking about Foster the People and Fun, I'm talking about synthy-no-one's-ever-heard-of-this-alternative.  (Although some of my favorite bands listed tend to create quite bizarre and disturbing lyrics, I can find deep meaning in them). I can't stand the world around me, I feel as if I am the only person who sticks out and realizes the reality of life around here. I spend lots of time on the internet, mainly because it helps to take my mind off of things, I suppose. I really do not know where my depressive fits have started from, but I think most of it comes from analyzing the bleak, bleak world around me. I am also an atheist. After several periods of questioning reality itself, I've ultimately come to the conclusion that there is no God. Also, another factor that may play a large part in my depression is a certain girl. She's the most beautiful girl I've ever met, and she has an amazing personality and we connect on so many levels that it's unreal. We have the same taste in music, movies, opinions, etcetera. Her and I hung out a lot last summer, which is when I ultimately fell in love with her. She rejected me before we started hanging out much, and then I suppose she felt bad for me and started to text me more. This only increased my feelings for her. After a few months of her flirting with me nonstop and calling me "the best friend she's ever had", I was almost certain she loved me. I could tell. She was texting me every day, and it wasn't out of sympathy anymore. She even told me that she loved me several times. I didn't want to ask her out, because it would be embarrassing as hell if I got rejected twice by the same person, who also had become my best friend. Currently, I'm a freshman and she's a sophomore. She's doing three-and-out, meaning she's doing good enough in school that she can graduate Junior year, which makes me feel young and inferior towards her. I often worry about if she sees me as being too young to date. Anyway, I think this is enough general information to see what I have going on. I really can't tell what's making me depressed, so if anyone here could find some sort of psychological meaning in this, then that would be wonderful.
Much Thanks,
-cab