Before I start let me just say that I'm going to the doctor as soon as possible for examination. I am just scared and stressed out of my mind and I want some idea of what's going on. 
 Approx. six weeks ago I started feeling on/off minor pain in my pelvis, usually on the left but sometimes in the right or center. On/off sharp pain when pressing on navel, constant nausea every day, foul smelling vaginal discharge, on/off lower back pain, usually dull but sometimes sharper. All of this worsens with physical activity and during menstruation. The nausea worsens when I strain my eyes, when I'm thirsty, and occasionally in the mornings. Some days will be worse in general. I've had a couple of days with just constant abdominal pain that radiates up through my rib cage. I get bloated a lot of the time.
 I just assumed this was all due to an STD, cyst, endometriosis, or something like that. However, three days ago I noticed my right supraclavicular lymph node was swollen (just from feeling around on my neck due to boredom). It's not huge, maybe 1-2 cm in diameter, and it's a bit rubbery and seems to be slightly mobile. It's tender to the touch. I almost feel like I'm imagining feeling a couple others as well, but I'm not entirely sure about that (how many clavicular nodes are there??) Also around the same time I noticed the node my legs and arms began feeling tingly and weak. Not tingly like pins and needles, more like some sort of mild sensation through them. It worsens in my hands/arms when I make a fist. This isn't all the time and it seems to get worse when I think about it or when I stand for long periods of time. I felt weaker than usual when doing leg workouts in the weight room earlier today.
 Does this sound like it is cancer? I know the only way to know is by getting examined but I am in tears with fear. I'm a 15 year old female with no history of medical problems. I know a lot of people in my family have been diagnosed with cancer, including my brother when he was two, but I have no idea if that is of importance. Is this just me being a hypochondriac and thinking I'm a doctor because I type all of my symptoms into google too frequently??