I need some advise. I apologise if none of this makes sense, it doesn't even make sense in my head so I'm just going to type as I think and hope that you understand. I have been with my partner for 18 months now, and we have a beautiful baby boy. He has always been very caring and loving, and treats me like a princess. 
 However, a couple of months back I received an email from one of his ex partners saying that he was very controlling throughout their relationship, he apparently cut her off from her friends and family and would often become violent if they had an argument. I have also heard that one of the reasons he and his most recent ex split was because he would phone her up when she was out and demand to know when she would be home. Since receiving this email I have been very conscious of any signs that he may be doing this to me and a couple of things are starting to bug me a little, but I'm not sure if I'm just being silly or not.
 Since the beginning of our relationship, he has openly admitted that he can be quite a jealous person. He once demanded to know why I was texting his best friend. I told him to stop being silly, and since then he has seemed fine. His best friend and I have become very close, he's like my older brother, and my partner seems fine with this however he does constantly want to know my relationship with every guy I talk to (I have a lot of male friends...)
Since having our little one, he never wants to go out together in the evenings as he doesn't want to leave our little one with a babysitter (the only babysitters I'd trust would be close friends or family), and when we do make plans they are often cancelled because he doesn't want to anymore so I find myself never going out unless he is at work. This never struck me as strange until recently when my mum has made a couple of comments on different occasions along the lines of 'don't let yourself lose your identity' or 'you have to put your foot down to that'. I am starting to feel quite shut off from my friends as I have no choice but to stay in with baby in the evenings, but I find myself sticking up for him by telling myself that friends could always come round to mine etc. Also, when I am out, I find myself having to let him know how long I'll be etc. He has never told me to do this, but I always feel I have to all the same.
In the mornings, I am always the one to have to get out of bed to find his work clothes for him.
If I am texting somebody, he always has to know who I am texting and what we are talking about.
Often, if he wants sex and he thinks I am asleep, he will carry on and do it anyway. He also seems very aroused by the idea of rough sex, or 'rape'. He has more than once said that he is going to 'rape' me rather than have sex with me.
 A lot of other little things happen around this, however I find myself struggling to remember them to write them down, if you know what I mean? It's like my mind has cast each separate thing off as insignificant but collectively they could have meant something.
 I was just wondering if any of you could offer some advise? Am I just being silly and over thinking things due to that email? Or is this the start of what broke down his previous relationships? As I said, he can be very caring and loving, it is just little things that seem to be ringing bells in me.
 Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank you.
 I should also note that I have a history of sexual abuse, so I am not sure whether I'm trying so hard to avoid this reoccurring that I am over thinking everthing?