I know it sounds silly to address this question. I could just as easily drink something and die...but  a part of me is buying into time. Maybe I need courage to carry it out, or acceptance It is irreversible. 
I m having severe marital problems accusing me of having an ongoing affair... just for receiving "hey how you whats up?" sms  from ok a guy friend who I never spoke to in ages, we had a disagreements major ones and then it was all bliss for a year. Now after a year n half of marriage, im pregnant assuming all was well.   Then his parents came along and he started acting crabby and betraying me with his parents, fault finding, criticism, stone walling, all the hall marks of abuse...but this was so marked in the past one month, like I have never seen before.
TO add to the woes im 16 weeks pregnant with our baby. 
I get so tired even thinking of the events but he is now blaming me for starting an argument and showing a lack of family values, inconsistent behavior, anything derogatory that comes to mind. Just a week before his parents arrived and one week into their stay with us, he was praising me. Suddenly I started seeing him sulk, grouch, never look at me, telling everyone he has to come home to crap, and going to stay in his dad's room from 6.30 pm till midnight. Never coming out to greet me even once. It was a sharp contrast to what I was seeing in him before they arrived. 
My loneliness was building up, why because I cared about his absence emotionally though he was physically present. So one day his dad comes and tells me to stop getting on his sons' nerves and that I should maintain a diary to discuss issues with him. In all truth and honesty, I get up early as he does to make breakfast, brew coffee, pack lunch daily. Now the only time I have my times' of sad thoughts are very rare say in response to a perceived sarcasm or slight. Once again I admit it might be my perception or speculation. I don't have an answer to why I do that when I do that. Even then I sit silently on a couch in the hall and silently cry while listening to music.
The days I do this are on my own or early mornings on weekends, where I don't expect him to get up that time. This is very infrequent.  
Ok those bouts were in the past year once in six months or so. I keep a check on myself often, I do things I even started writing a book for children, but I think ill have to re focus it on my sour experiences with some of life's experiences.  
SO getting back to my pent up loneliness, I decided id visit my parents and be with them during my pregnancy. I Now  at present and for the past 2 months I didn't receive any calls or replies to my e mails, yes his parents are still with him. We had a major fight where he called me "ugly short fat *****" "you wear high heels", " I should have divorced you along time ago", "get your crap and furniture out of my house by today or tomorrow better", " Go abort the baby it will be ugly like you".  
After my flight on SUnday, he tells my parents we didn't have the courtesy to inform him of my arrival. That they wanted to talk, and rang my parents repeatedly that day. My parents asked why so you can complain more on our daughter? Then after my arrival and half a day passed, I was with my mum when she picked his call and he said he missed me loved me etc and my mum told him to write it not just say it, to show it. so he did. 
But that didn't warm my heart, his insults were ringing fresh in my ears. I wrote back and told him he only had complaints on me all the time, and all of a sudden it got worse. we shared a few emails until he stopped emailing...mine were enquiries on why he's acting the way he is.
 When I first met him he was constantly staring at me and smiling and looking dreamy. to add I do a lot of gym workout I run for 20 mins constantly. Yet to know he said all this drags me into depression. Now my parents sent him a few emails that he is being abusive. He took it very badly but all they sent were cut n copy diagrams of the abusive cycle.  No body should correct him or he is never wrong.
 Two months got spent in pure agony, where I came to be relaxed I wasn't. I was anxious that my marriage is in tatters. After sending him a few loving emails, as I was frightened, he replied and Is now saying I started It all.4
I did ask him why he wasn't picking my parents calls either. That s when our ugly fight started the name calling started. He said he will throw my coffee table out many times. I paid for all furniture and décor at home and even my clothes etc. 
Now He paints a picture that its ALL MY FAULT. My parents are so sad they also yell in sadness at me.
This all makes me suicidal. I have had sad moments from time to time, completely not related to this but before I got married. 
Now I feel I just don't fit into this world and am very exhausted by dramas. I just cannot keep at hoping always.
I feel im ill equipped for this life.  I usually hold in all my issues and seldom express them or  I Cry as means of coping. Im usually happy go lucky, love exercise and fast tracks, I love having friends, But Now as of now IM  a real WRECK emotionally.
 I wish I could die or be hit by a truck at high speed while driving. Those are my silent wishes.