I dont really know how to say it, im rubbish with putting how i feel into words.
Im and 18 year old girl i have a boyfriend but i've always had commitment issues, my ex boyfriend use to "punish" me sexually for like not listening to him or things as petty as that which then made me believe that was the only thing i was good for. I was 16 he was 22. When with him he made it seem like it was okay for me to cheet as he "liked it in the bedroom" so i started looking else where as i was turning 18 and i met this wonderful guy (the one im with now) and then at a party an old collegue took advantage of me when i was drunk and other people recorded it so now my boyfriend has no trust in me what so ever, now i find out my father, stepmother and younger sister think im a slag and they just take the mickey out of me and they dont seem to think it bothers me cause i struggle to ahow people im upset so i lock myself into my room and yern to be helped.
 Ive never been a popular girl, i never really had the chance as i was in 5 primary schools so never really got to make a bond with anyone. Then in high school i did meet a select few whom i could get on with but i left half way through 5th year to go to college where i never made any friends and in return i lost all of my friends from school. I never got the chance to spend any time with anyone because my ex was really controlling an now not one of them have the time of day for me at all.
 Recently i got myself into debt with the loan company known as wonga and thought i could pay it off with my wages from where i work but once i done that my work cut my hours down and now im struggling to pay them, i owe my dad umpteen phone bills and sets of dig money.
 Im also getting really confused too easy these days.. Sometimes i don even know why i go somewhere never mind what day it is which really worries me..
 I think ive covered it all and to sum it up.. My family, boyfriend and even new people i meet think im a heartless **** and they just bring me down, i have no friends i have no one to talk to what so ever and im in debt upto my eyeballs and i struggle to get by daily..
 I dont quite know where to fit this bit in but i with feeling so down i am begining to not even believe that this is real, i've been drinking heavyly, i also self harm and on two occassions i've took pills till i get really drowsey but im too scared to actually kill myself :/ x i dont quite know what i should do anymore :(