I know that I've been correctly diagnosed about the bipolar disorder, but I seem to have every one of the 'symptoms' of BPD.  I feel like I'm a classic example.  I get really clingy to people really fast and then I get paranoid that they will leave, even if there is nothing wrong with the relationship.  I'm always making up these extravagant things to tell friends just so they will be interested and stick around (now please don't get me wrong!!!  I don't go around lying all of the time).  I tell people way too personal things at the beginning of a relationship because I feel like I am super close to them after having talked to them for 5 minutes. If I have plans with someone and they go wrong or they get cancelled I immediatly think that it's because I've done something wrong, and that's all I can think about.  Because of this I have horribly unstable relationships.  I am really compulsive as far as spending money is concerned (I spent over ten grand in 3 months). I always feel like I have to buy something or I don't feel right. At one point in time I was addicted to pain killers (thank goodness that has come to a halt!!).  Now I know this is related to depression, but I feel like I am 'nothing' all of the time, but especially when I don't have any friends to be around, or when I have burned every bridge there was and I don't have anyone around that I feel 'cares' about me.  And then, when I don't feel entirely empty I just feel like I am a horrible person all of the time.  I have changed my mind about what I want to do with my life about a million times (mostly because I don't have the drive), but for a better example, I have decided to go back to school in the Fall.  The idea came to me one night, that night I applied for Financial aid, and decided on a whim that I wanted to teach High School.  Two weeks later, still wanting to go back to school, another whim came to me and I wanted to go into speech pathology in the school instead.  I get angry for no reason at all...it will last for half a day or so and then disappear. The list could go on and on and on.....
 I know that a lot of the above issues can be directly related to having bipolar disorder, I am just concerned that there are too many correlations with BPD to not at least check into it.  I know it's hard to pinpoint and even harder to treat.  I just feel like maybe a different course of counseling or even meds or anything might be beneficial.  I would hate to go through life not knowing and then find out later that some things were the way they were because I didn't address the issue.  Can anyone who has this disorder give me any information about additional symptoms, things I can talk to my p doc about, or even just tell me I'm over reacting. lol, I'm really good at that too!!!  Thanks!!