Sory for being so long winded please bare with me. 
 Firstly I'll describe myself a little. 
 I am a 21 year old male. I have in the past had one major depressive episode which lasted for approximately a year as well as several bouts of anxiety wich have continued for the last three years. I have only had one fully blown out panic attack but do get smaller ones quite often. Most of the time I am fine. I am physicaly very healthy and have a strong social life and by the most part am a happy upbeat person. I have an uncle who is a schizophrenic and several family members who have suffered depression. I excessively drink alcohol maybe once a week and smoke maybe a cigarette per day. 
 I have in the past have had several fears. Most of these fears are fears concerning both mental and physical diseases but are not limited to these subjects ( i believed I had AIDs/ had erectile problems for some time and didn't think I was normal/ thought I was going to give my girlfriend sexualy transmitted disease of which I wasn't at a great risk etc etc). These fears often consume me and no matter how hard I convince myself I cannot stop these intrusive thoughts from playing with my mind. When I become anxious I think about the issue non stop. 
 I have had several fears concerning acquiring sexualy transmitted diseases but the most scary one I have to say is a fear that I will develop/ am developing shiczohprenia. 
 I have smoked very small amounts of cannabis approximately 15 times over a span of maybe 4 years. 3 of those times I would consider myself as quite intoxicated by cannabis but not on the other occasions. 
 The main source of my fear is usualy the next day not when I have smoked. I believe I am still high (even if I had the tiniest amount) or that I will develop schizophrenia or that I am developing schizophernia. These fears subside within a day or two and I can continue with my normal life. 
 Maybe a month ago I used a fair amount. I went home and went to sleep and woke maybe five hours later after I heard a voice in my head say "hey". I was only very much semi concious at the time and put it down to hypnagogia as I fell asleep again only moments later. 
 The next day I become quite paranoid that I was still high or was developing phycotic symptoms and was questioning everything around me as to whether it was reality or if I was having hallucinations. Once again these fears subsided after a day and I went on with my normal life. I also decided to discontinue use of cannabis as I had not enjoyed the occasional experience of it. 
 Three weeks later I was in the car with a friend who smoked a joint. He had the window open and I did not feel at all high as a a result. But I went home that afternoon and studied schizophrenia and the chacnes of developing a phycosis if you have a family history out of curiosity. I instantly became worried that I would develop the illness. This was maybe a week ago.
 The fear evolved from thinking I could possibly develop the illness to  the fear that I was developing the illness. It has become an obsession. No matter how hard I try to convince myself I do not have schizophrenia I cannot shake the belief that I may be devloping it. 
 I try to avoid reading about symptoms when I get like this because often these symptoms then become an imagined reality. I can't help myself though and will study the disease/ condition non stop until I know every detail. I have not had any halluciantions but it is easy to think I might of in such a state. Every minute of the day I am analysing the source of every sound to see if it is real or not and when in complete silence I really focus to see if I can hear any sounds around me. 
 There are no voices. I do however random words or phrases pop into my head - i can usual put this down to a movie I have watched in the past few days or writing on a sign I have seen that day or watever. I think it may just be imagined as I only do this when Im thinking about the fear of having schizophrenia. 
 I have no other exhibitions of paranoid thinking except for when I show my ID at a nightclub when I think the bouncer will think I am drunk even when I am sober (which has been a fear for maybe 3/4 months). 
 I can hold myself in a conversation and still have a great interest in being sociable. I am not reclusive in the slightest and I would rather by around people than by myself because I am scared to think about this stuff and do so more when Im by myself. I am not dellusional. I do not believe people hate me or are conspiring to get me. I do not have delusons of granduer. I do not have emotional blunting or strange posture and a blank facial expression. I do not feel deporsonalization or hypersenstivity to criticism. I still have a high degree of personal care. I do not have suicidal thoughts. 
 I just need someones thoughts? Am I just suffering extreme anxiety (as I believe I probably am) or has anything here set off schizophrenia alarm bells so to speak? 
 I just hope I stop thinking about this stuff it is completely consuming me