My symptoms: mild to extreme dizziness... weird dull pain in right side of my brain (always the same spot) and the pain gets sharp with pressure (such as sneezing, coughing, physical exertion) or stress and tension... fatigue during the day, difficulty sleeping or flat-out insomnia during the night (brain pain wakes me up at night and seems worse at night and in the morning)... occasional vision problems in right eye (spots and shadows and such)... sensitivity to sound... balance issues... fuzziness/confusion/memory difficulties (esp. when stressed)... neck/shoulder tension when stressed... occasional brain clicking/crunching sound at base of neck/brain... occasional mild numbness of right side of face and right arm/hand... 
 Duration: been having these issues since April 2010, off and on. This latest episode has been going on for about a month and a half. 
 What has been done: CT scan in April 2010 (outcome normal), MRI in May 2010 (outcome normal...change in white matter in right frontal lobe and that was explained to me as "normal"), and lumbar puncture in April 2010 (outcome normal). 
 What my doctors are saying: It's just migraines or stress. 
 I'm freaking out though. I'm worried it's a brain tumor or aneurysm or maybe even stroke. I'm a single mom, I just left my husband this month and have nowhere to go, no job (was a stay-home mom for 6 years), no car, no money, etc. I am under an INSANE amount of stress. Not to mention all the other health issues I have been dealing with (hypothyroid, pre-diabetes, PCOS). I can't even work or drive with all this crap going on...I'm so dizzy and whatnot that it's impossible! 
 What I'm asking is....could all those symptoms REALLY just be stress?? And if so, what can I do to help myself?? My primary doc just wants to put me on anti-deppressants (which I'm not okay with) and my endocrinologist doesn't think I NEED to do that (the antidepressants) yet. I saw another doc who says no to those meds also, but wants me to try some stronger headache meds.