I have adult son 38,he always gave us trouble from early teens,actually controlled my whole family, husband never disciplined he was too mild mannored I was always trying to keep my son out of trouble and on the straight and narrow, defied  me,never satisfied ,always showed anger towards me, very manipulative, everyone loves him he is like the mayor ,lots of friends and hard working ,very popular with kids and adults, esp friends cause he would do what other kids always were afraid to do because of parents punishment. he was never afraid of consequences.  I tried alwys to get him help but I just came out as a over bearing mother, andmy husband never supported me, we had good marriage aaccept when it came to children rearing he never teamed up with me. sat back and made me look like bad guy, I have a daughter 36 she was sweet and great no trouble till her teens  she always took back seat and was satisfied with whatever came her way, she was very patient cause her brother ran the house and she was good, teeanage years she started to rebel but didn't get the attention like my son I was non tolerant and she left home and then back in her 20s and learned that she did have good parents she rebelled and upset taking all her bros crap we all did. I could never get him help schools loved him always told me to support and keep him away he was smart handsome and I could not understand why he was so angry and mean to me at home. ? my husband just ignored me. my daughter left. she is ok and married now and **** fine.  my son I always told my husband he needed help he ignored me my son hated me  made life miserable for me and all of us but husband took it, he never had lots of girls he was popular but one at a time. he went with a girl broke his heart too young 16, then he was soft and cried, I believed too young. but what could I do. then at 17 met a girl no parents mother and father died lived with old fashioned grandmother, she was the youngest of the group the sweetes every mothers dream thought God sent her to us. she was happy to have support from a good family a handsome strong husband who would give her security and love forever. I worried as he was a handful and I told my husband I felt she might be a pushover and he could control her or she may change him for the better as she was kind and quiet and accepting of him 100% ...well he always treated me mean thru me out of his house many times for speaking my peace when he would boss his 6 year old and make him cry and scream and yell and call names and disrespect his wife, I intervened and said it was not right so he would throw me out, my husband would say don't go there that's why he doesn't go there, but that's not my way I wanted to help hope he would not get worse and his wife 8 years put up with it stuck by him and loved him and he treated her as badly as me. everyone else thought he was mr wonderful all the people that praised him and his bad behavior and his risky character and his defiance to authority everyone loved it but never would be that way,  his son is 8 now mild mannered I watched him while his parents went to work my son tried not for me to do it but his wife trusted us and the son loved us. now he was caught cheating while his wife was having a baby treated her terrible during pregnancy and during birth, so sad he was cheating and not admitting it, and treating her horrible.  I continued to watch baby and the 8 year old I went there one day to bring kids home, he was there and left when I got there I said hi he was not living ther any more, I said I wish he would have tried but didn't get into any conversation and said my husband missed him. that was it. when I left the kids off I went into my truck drove down the block and he smashed my truck on the passenger side and then went up front and back into it 2x and then went around the block and crashed behind and totaled my truck while I was in it. I was in hospital someone called police could not believe he would do this for no reason and was very upset. police wanted to prosecute everyone said you cant he would lose job and not have money for kids and you don't do that to son, so I dropped everything but the DA angry said it was not right? but I had no choice now they insisted on temp order of protection till 2015 he just has to behave in my company that's it.  he refuses to see me tells my grandson I make trouble and hates me and my grandson hurts so bad as he loves me, the little one is close to us 2 years old but growing up fast with the rough tough boys times they have and his wild woman girlfriend. 2 sons 3 men never married felon.? my daughter in law is weak and wont fight him she is afraid he might her her but wont speak up says she just wants peace, the boys of course enjoy his company when playing rough or doing things that young kids don't do, obscene movies violent movies, speeding,no discipline unless the father is being watched by other parents then he will be like the father of the year and over due it and yelling at son in front of people if he cusses and behaves like the father does. he looks like the father of the year and I know the 8 year old is torn between being a sweet loving boy growing up confused and in the middle of seeing and hearing all of this. the little one is touph and rough at 2, he mimicks the father ..says bad words and just starteda talking we reprimand and try hard and in my house they are both wonderful and admired by people how behaved they are. but when they are with me....im afraid to go forward and confront him as he might be  phyco path behavior I researched seems to have all the symptoms ...he convinced everyone that I hit his car and I suffered the consequene cause I would not go to grand jury, he would have lost. but been a felon and in jail lost his job. so I didn't go forward he tells everyone long tall stories that I crashed into him and lies and lies to justify his story, it makes it so hard for kids to be with us and family times.  she gives him the kids everyonther weekend and more nites during the week, they come to my home in morning to drop 2 year old off and then bring the 8 year old to school after sleeping the nite at fathers 2 nites a week and wake up and then go to mothers and then to grandmothers and school up so early and its too much on them 2 year old  comes exhausted and the 8 year old tired doesn't even want to go to school, my daughter in law does not like the waves and says nothing. I try to talk but she just does what he controls her to do.  she wont go to court, he def wont sign papers so he would be ordered by court he does as he pleases when he pleases. not a good roll model,  I love my son always wanted to get him help I knew this was going to happen I was a realistic person saw it coming.he was myson my little boy wonders what I did what I said, that made him what he is today??? I thought I was a good mother.but cant get to the bottom accept that he could not ocntroll me and I always stopped him from trouble. I was the one he brought for cars, and jewelry wedding rings???? and then you hate me? and he would say im going to get a ring you want to see it? if you don't like it too bad I bought it already,??? with everything he would take me and talk like this I just dealth with it. what advice if any could you give me. im been suffering, I have diabetes am on discibility now my eyes are not the best, but still ble to see my grandchildren and help them thru this while they work but anyother time I wont see them holidays special occasions, she wont bring them and he wont be in our company so this is the only way. I wont give them up its what I live for now to save them at least while I can.??? is there any advice you can give me to make some sence of this.?????