Okay, well I'm a 14 year old girl and I missed my last period. It worried me alot even though I've never had sex. Now, my period is really late and I'm really scared and stressed. I've had a boyfriend for 3 months and I really love him, but I DO NOT let him do anything that I'm not ready for. So I'm still a virgin, and I don't plan on that changing any time soon, but anyway, I don't know what's going on. I'm afraid to tell him or my mom, because I know my mom will immediately start accusing me of being I ginormous ***** and destroying my purity WHICH I HAVEN'T DONE. The most I've done is wrapped my legs around his waist while we were in a pool. In swimsuits. So I don't think anything could've happened there...but anyway, I really need some help here. I'm scared beyond words, you guys. Please answer as soon as possible. Thank you.
UPDATE
Alright, well I took a pregnancy test today to see if I'm pregnant because I missed my period last month and I should've started yesterday but I haven't. I'm 14 and a virgin, but I've been showing some signs of pregnancy and I'm very, very scared and paranoid. I just wanted to be sure. I took one today and it said it was negative. It recommended to take it in the morning I think, but it was around 10:00 or 11:00 pm. It's been around a month since my last period should've started. I've been eating a lot less lately and I've been very stressed. I woke up with a headache yesterday and last month my stomach was cramping like period cramps. My breasts might've grown a little bit but they're not sore at all. I've been looking kinda bloated lately, but it might just be me. I know I haven't had sex, but vaginas are weird and complicated, y'know? The most "sexual" thing I ever did with my boyfriend was wrap my legs around his waist in a pool while he carried me around. In our swimsuits. And I'm PRETTY SURE he didn't ***...because we weren't really doing anything besides kissing and floating around at a waterpark. I would've known? Right? I dunno, I guess there's a lot that I still don't know. But like I said, it's been around a month and I took my pregnancy test today. I didn't really have to pee so it took a while and I was rushed to try to force it out, which is pretty impossible to do when you're peeing. I touched the absorbent part of the test for less than a second before I used it. Would this change the result? Is there anything else I should do? I feel like I'm going to miss this period as well. Should I go to a doctor? What are the odds of a false negative? BECAUSE I REALLY NEED TO KNOW. It's stressing me out so much and I'm so scared.
PS: sorry if its too much information, but I have masturbated (well not really, just feeling around) before, and I don't think my hymen could've broke, but that was a while ago. 
PPS: when I missed my period the first time,I put a tampon in just to be sure, and when I took it out, it had a little light brown/pinkish stuff on it, but then that was it. I felt sick today, but I think it was just from the nerves when I told my mom...because she jumped to conclusions...