I am in a pickle. The woman im in love with , is a long time love. We met
 very young, fell in love. We had a fight and broke up and didn't see
 each other for 20 years. After we reconnected I found out I had a son. WOW.
 we started dating and moved in together. Things were strange at first. She
 was divorcing her husband.
   I stayed in it and fell deeper in love. We had rocky times and broke up
 two more times. Quickly got back together  . we loved each other and things
 were good .we did have fights. Who doesn't. But the kicker was this...
 her father moved in,we got along fine for a few months , then he started
 taking over the house and pushing my buttons. until one day on July 19 2015.
 (THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL) he and I both reached our limit. We had a very loud and angry argument
 that resulted in him sucker punching me and she kicked me out.( I never
 laid a hand on her father). But it ended us. I tried emailing and talking
 to her. She responded for a week and then she stopped and asked me not to
 call her saying she was emotionally ****** and needed to deal with it , wishing the best for me etc. 
    But I found excuses to call and get her to talk to me . I went
 over to her house a couple of times with her permission to get my things.
 And in the process we hugged and kissed each time I saw her. Now , she is completely ignoring me
 .I found out she met a attractive younger man . we are older. I am 50 and
 she is 43. she is very smart and independent . quick witted as hell ... after I regained what was left of my senses ...
  I sent her a voice message saying that I was going to do the admirable thing and leave her alone, that I want to work things out but if that's not what she wants . we have nothing more to talk about. I also told her the door was open if she changed her mind and that I loved her.
 there has been not contact between us ever sense. ( five days ). Biting nails.
  do I have a chance in hell getting her back?
  p,s, she is the one who stole my heart and I cant imagine being without
 her.
  sincerely ,Matt.B