A little introduction on the topic is needed i guess.
I have been dating this man for a little more than a year now(we are engaged now), he has a 16 year old daughter.
it has been an interesting year for my fiance and me. I moved in last august and at first his daughter and i got along great! We would go everywhere together. 
        Not long after i moved in she began dating this boy who we thought would be like every other boyfriend she had. you know the typical relationship which ended  pretty much before it began?! Well to make that short  they are still together. they go to seperate schools and are lucky if they see eachother once a week. they are always on the phone with one another. if not on the phone on the computer. 
        Here is a brief list of what all we have unfortunately had to deal with this last year: Taking a picture of her private area(storing it on her fathers computer..thats how we found that! we were both discusted!) We found more flirtacious pictures as well in which we made her delete. she also had a pregnancy scare as well. we found some  webpages too looking up teenage pregnancy. right around christmas she went to her mothers house and decided she was going to move there; she later claimed thats cause she was afraid to tell us she thought she was pregnant. she moved back home shortly after she told her mom she thought she was with child because her mom called her " a worthless piece of **** *****. who she didnt want in her house that she no longer was her daughter and she didnt want anything to do with her." so we let her move back home with us cause legally we had to. we took her to the doctor who confirmed she wasnt pregnant and by the looks of her blood tests and the ultrasound she was not pregnant anytime recently either. she was upset, she wanted a baby! (why do 16 year olds not think of the responcibility of a child, like paying for diapers and formula and clothing, food, furniture, schooling, daycare? i have no idea!) 
         Thats when we decided that it was her choice to date her boyfriend but it was our choice on when we would go pick him up etc. so we told her that if it was conveniant for us we may go get him for a few hours once a week. she was not allowed to go to his place due to the lack of supervision. getting past that situation it took a week of calling school attendance, supervisors,principals,etc. just to get her accepted back into school in the middle of the second semester! reason why it was so difficult is because her mother puther in adult education and in this state a child is to remain in school legally until the age of 17 so they had planned on  keeping her in adult ed until she turned 17 and then she would get her GED. Luckily because of her age we were able to bend a few rules to get her back into a main stream highschool. she would not get credit for the first half of the school year but they said they would allow her to take classes for the second semester and earn credits for those classes.
          So eventually it became summer vacation, she started talking to her mom again, she had what she called an "accidental overdose" which she was grounded for mainly cause she went into a medicine cabinet for pain medicine in her father and my room which is off limits to everyone, as well as the medicine being off limits. she was grounded for a month which mainly meant she had all the household chores. she hated it cause she could not use the phone of get on the computer until every single one of them was finished...
          Its been rocky recently with her attitude, she says she has no friends, shes mad cause shes grounded and last week her father and i were at work when she decided to move back with her mom. she didnt consult any of us .. she waited till we werent here. the problem we are dealing with now are the "false accusations" shes telling everyone about her father.  and the fact that with her she took 500$ that was to be put into a savings account for her but the money was never truly given to her, a cat, a turtle, a tv, xbox, cd player,and dvd player, along with her grandmas cat carrier, and a few of my things. im sure theres more but those are the things that come to mind right now.
          Shes sent a few emails to me through myspace ... the last two becomming a little more threatening. im at a loss for words and im not planning on emailing her back. she has shown no respect for this family, all she cares about is herself. and really my main reason for writing this is to vent a little, and to ask the opinion of someone not involved what i really should be doing. or how i should handle this. 
sorry this is so long.