I've been with this creative, sweet, caring, girl for a month. It was a major struggle to come together, and based on her previous behavior history, she's banned from my house. please read on cuz I can use some education.
 extra info: ok. here are the meds she's on: Topamax 150 mg, 
Seroquel 200mg. Pliva(?) 434(number on pill),  4x  0.5 Clonazepam. 
and 6 pills light green in color and oblong in shape labeled with L2. Dunno about 'em. 
She's 24. 
 Her parents are very up front. They told me her history. Her father accuses her of being high, just when she does something simple like cry when she has a fight with her friend. 
Now, this I cannot buy; people can be emotional and not always be stoned.  However, her dad told me that this ongoing family issue has been going for over 10 years! Her mom is helpful, but I don't appreciate her upsetting my gf by always saying I'm gonna leave her. 
I read up, too. She's told me a good part of her history, and believe me....wow. 
 My gf is very focused on making sure I don't leave her; she said she doesn't mean to cry etc. when she feels stressed out and wants to make sure she can express her feelings without me being scared. However, this idea of me leaving her encompasses her to the point of her not even being able to enjoy the day with me while I'm there!
I told her she's intense. I told her to work on anger. She's doing just that. Things have improved. However, her friends in her AA group purposely hurt her and she LOSES it; cries, tells me "Great, you're leaving me too." Now, who said anything about this?!  AND, doing this in a public area forces my hand...which I told her I won't tolerate. 
 Now, here's what scares me. Seroquel is used to treat schizo(not her), bipolar, and those who have manic episodes. In addition, those with borderline personality issues :( 
I read the Merck journal, and I Hate to think this, but her behavior seems textbook personality issues. Her anger, at times, is expressed very inappropriately, and in places where we cannot properly talk it out.  once in the er, which she had permission to go to(she had bad history of over-visiting ers to get meds), her mom called to check up on her, and then she got all paranoid thinking that I called her mom and said "Never ******* call my mom." So, I left her in the room to calm down. I won't tolerate it. 
 In public, she busts my chops about not wanting to move in with her?! WHAT?! we've been together for over a month. I need more time. she's made sacrifices for me, but I'm not ready. I won't get my hand forced. 
 She said "When I originally had alcohol issues, they said personality issues, but they said that to everyone, just a broad diagnosis." she hasn't drank in 2 years. expresses no desire to do so.
If someone really is experiencing a very hurtful situation, it's common to cry a lot etc. but can this also be counted as a manic episode? hmmm.. 
 I've seen the positive things she has, and how she's been there for me. But the above scares me. I also wanna have a better handle on how many times a day she calls me. I making it clear I cannot ALWAYS spend every day with her; especially since she's banned from my house cuz my family is concerned.
 COULD it be; my gf has borderline personality and conciously manipulates situations? Honestly, she don't use me for $, car, or anything like that. 
OR she cannot control it and is sincerely sorry for outburst. help. I calm things, but she always says I'm the only one that can calm her down.
Though she recently evolved and said I'm not asking you to be a therapist or sponsor, just my bf and listen and be supportive. I just don't wanna be burned out; we deserve happiness.
help.