I met my boyfriend (fiancee now) in high school. We've been together 3 and a half years. We are now in college and have been living together 2 years. At first, It seemed like a fairy tale of sorts because neither one of us had been in a previous relationship and neither one of us had any sexual relations with anyone before meeting each other. We were amazingly compatible in every way possible. We were pure, young, innocent, honor roll students, attractive, well behaved, no drinking or drug using, no partying even. Match made in heaven. Of course it gets better, and worse...
 A week into our relationship, he sprayed my eye with mouth wash just for fun. My eye burned for an hour. He said he didn't know why he did it. 3 weeks in he pushed me in front of my family and I nearly fell into a pool, because I didnt go to him right when he asked. A few months later we decided to have sex for the first time. I then learned of his "porn problem". A collection of porn my eyes had never seen. Thousands of movies in his computer. Even though I was one of the most sought after females in my high school, i wasn't good enough for him. He never complimented me, always insulted me and expected me to be like the 'porn stars". He wanted to make me ugly for some reason. He wouldn't let me show my legs or arms. I couldnt wear perfume. I couldn' wear makeup. He threatened every guy that complimented me in any way. Eventually he got rid of the porn; but by the first year, he was regularly abusing me physically. Punching me, kicking me, slapping, choking. I constantly had bruises, sores on my scalp, scratches... 
 After high school, he got a job and got us our own place. He is very hardworking, responsible, and refused to let me have a job because he was determined to take care of me and give me evrything I want.  But at what cost. I do the all the housework and do everything he asks, and still he says all the time I'm worthless and that I do nothing for him. He later apologizes. Then says it again. I offer to get a job, even if I have to walk, and he won't let me. He says it's his responsability to work and take care of me. Yet every chance he gets, he throws back in my face that I don't work. Meanwhile he abuses me everyday still. One incident my face was so bruised, I couldn't leave the house for a couple of days. Another time he pushed me into the edge of a desk and cut through my leg muscle. I still can't walk properly and it's been over a year. By the end of two years I decide to tell someone...
 I told his best friend. Which was a mistake because I learned the guy had feelings for me and was then determined to take me away from my situation when all I wanted was advice. I fell in as well, and considered leaving with his best friend. But it wasn't right. I had an obligation to my boyfriend who had done so much for me. Their friendship fell apart, but I didnt leave him. The abuse continued. We both started college. We got two dogs, we share one car...now I feel like I'll never leave him. He pays everything. My parents have no room for me and refuse to let me stay with them because I'm not "a child anymore", I have no place to go. He is my food and shelter provider. Without him I have absolutely nothing. 
 6 months ago he proposed, with a very expensive diamond ring. I do love him, I had no choice but to say yes, hoping that he changes one day. 
 Today not much has changed. He abused me again today, which is why I'm writing. I want to leave but I have nowhere to go and no money or car or job experience. It's not that easy to just GO. Guess I'm stuck. I dont know what to do.