Hey, I have had some weird headaches there not like normal ones they are more annoying than painful its 85%annoying and 15%pain and its not around my whole head its just in one or two place at a time. Since its summer i haven't had any social contact with my friends.So it all started like month ago I got this one headache and felt lightheaded i thought it was dehydration so i went and sat down i had this head for like two days. the next week for the 4th of july i went on vacations out of town,i dint feel any pains or headaches or anything i was having a  great time with my family(no friends btw). When i came back like 5 days later on Monday of the next week i felt fine and then on thursday i was messing around chasing my dogs around. 3 days later (sunday) it gave me a pain in my lower abdomen and on my groin so that whole week i was worried so i  googled all my symptoms which made me think of the worst, that week on saturday i went to the ER where they did a CT scan everything came out fine and the doctor told me it was just groin pull i just had to rest it out. The next day i felt fine.and then i started to think what if theres something wrong with my body and the doctor is lying to me. I dont know im weird like that and start thinking of the worst for the last week i have been getting those freaking headaches again and its only when i think about it or when i am not entertained (or when i am bored).  i have been using google and i just dont know it could be allot of thing and i dont want to go to the doctors again and i think it could be depression as i really havent talked to my freinds allot in the passed 2 months and somtimes all i can think about is when i get back to school me and my friends are gonna do this and that? I have also had a little kind of insomnia as i could not sleep and since My love life isnt going great i had this thoughts of the girl i like i couldnt sleep so i had an all nighter. now everyday i stay up all night and sleep during the day about at 3:00 pm i go to sleep.My days consist of being on the computer all day either watching movies or being on FB and even google-ing my symptoms, watching Tv and playing on my iphone.what do you guys think it could be Depression? and how can i fix depression? next week i am going to meet up with most my friends for this thing at school so i am going to be social with them. please help me figure this thing out and give me advice thanks.
  PS:  i dont have suicide thoughts at all (yet)lol