Hello all, 
Last year, i have been diagnosed with anxiety, which led to severe depression. I'm on 10 mg cipralex a day, and 0.25 mg Xanax. 
Thing appear to be on an off, but if i have to compare, i am a way better than last year. 
Been passing through a rough time, joblessness family problems and all type of stresses you could thing off in a home where everyone thinks he is the boss. i am the type that doesnt like problems. 
The thing is, all the problems occurred in the family house up in the mountains, and its like whenever i go there, i have this feeling of tension. 
Been fasting for a month, continuing with my medication. feeling spaced out happened to me the first week of fasting, and passed away; and whenever i feel this way, i get anxious worrying to go back to depression, and fearing that something is going wrong in my head or i am getting crazy. 
The feeling of being in dream like state is what bothers me the most, and the fear that something is not right with me. 
Fasting ended, and the family had to spend the day in the family house, things was cool, but i was in constant tension, remembering all the bad events that occurred there and fearing that i might suffer what i suffered from last year. 
i am scared to go back to my depression. and whatever symptom i have, i get tensed. 
For the last 2 days i have been feeling spaced out, brain fog. contacted my doctor, he re-did my tests, and told me that i am perfectly fine. and i should continue with my meds, and that fasting my cause this, even after fasting the body needs to regulate itself again. 
i woke up this morning, and i was fine, and little by little i started getting this brain fog, and fear. 
I watch my self a lot. 
knowing that socially, ppl love me, and i am active, and they notice nothing about my anxiety or feeling spaced out. but the feeling and fear are really getting a part of me. 
i pray and wish that i'll get back to what i was before. 
i drink, i dont do drugs, i smoke tobacco...but once again, i am in constant family problems, financial problems, politically tensed and unstable country, everyone i see is very aggressive and and tensed all the time. 
 is my brain fog result of all this stressful accumulations? 
 i am single, 38 years old, sometimes i think, that getting married and living in my place will help me, knowing that i want to get married and have a family.... 
 thanks for reading, and i appreciate your responses.