Ok so me and my bf have known each other for about 6 years, we dated in high school but didn't work out but kept in touch. His parents are separated and his last gf was abusive towards him by throwing thing and hitting. Well in October 2013 we started dating again and everything was great I had just gotten out of a bad relationship as did he so we were happy to have each other. Long story short, we had our ups and downs during the first year since our exes would not get out of the picture, and something that strained our relationship was his ex girlfriend sending me an old tape of them having sex and her hacking into his phone and texting me( she works for a telemarketer ) but between all of this my trust has been compromised because I feel like he is hiding something, I mean there is a reason she keeps stirring up drama? 
 She's done it three times the last being December. Going into our 3rd year, 2nd in a relationship I noticed around last year in November thing seemed to change. Yes we had our occasional fights but they started to become more regular. Also he had this thing with calling me a *****, stupid or "you're acting like a *****" I didn't like it and eventually he stopped but going into this year we've been arguing every other week. And one night in January we got into a big argument and he backed me into the couch and put his hand around my neck, enough for me to forced my hand through to break the grip. He was so angry he didn't even realize he did it until I told him and then he got mad at me for sayid it because he didn't believe me. I never got an apology... This anger kept evolving and he would punch walls and the steering wheel just something when he was mad. He also began to get really controlling in my eyes and still is. If I mentioned to him that I felt like he was he would get angry and we would have an argument. 
 I can't have guy friends, can't go out to a bar or club or even dinner(I'm in college) he hates most of my friends and doesn't want me talking to them or hanging around them he wants to know everywhere I go and if I don't tell him my plans or if I decide to do something within plans he know he is upset. He got upset at me one day because I got lunch with a friend(guy) after my clinicals all day. When I was honest and told him of my day he got mad and gave me the silent treatment for a day. I had to apologize constantly and I've been saying I'm sorry more than he has in a month. He never says it! About a month ago we got in another big fight. My grandmother was sick while I was on spring break and he was also dealing with problems. We had some miscommunications and he thought I didn't care and blah blah blah, he came over the next night and we were watching a movie well he brought up the situation and tried to leave and I tried to stop him by blocking the door because he ignored and cuts me off everything I'm talking. Well I grabbed my wrist and yanked me forward, as I came forward I don't know what happened... If it deliberately put is hand up or if it was a freak accident but I ended up with a busted bottom lip and fell to the floor shocked and crying. I told him to get away from me and he was apologetic and saying it was him to that that I'm sorry etc afterwards he had a panic attack and I found my self caring for him. 
 Afterwards we had makeup sex and he never talked about it again. Lately the signs are getting stronger and he never listens to me but always finds something wrong with me to pick on and I feel like I'm walking on eggshells and he notices  because I'm scared to say what I feel since he is so sensitive and easily angered. But when I get angry I have no reason and he gets away with to much! I've been searching signs and they're there I just can't believe that it's happening. Will it get worse, am I exaggerating... I really just need to vent and get advice, I need someone to talk to!