Alittle back ground info on my relationship, it started out pretty great on 3/9/11 almost a year ago, he treated me amazing, like a princess.. he made me feel like nobody else mattered but me. And I had never experienced that before. I loved it. He seemed soo..perfect. But I had all these girls message me on Facebook telling me to watch myself and that he was a Cheater and that he was trying to talk to them and stuff, well I blew it all off for awhile then it kinda started to click when different girls were all saying sort of the same stuff, so I asked him about it.. he got upset and said no they are all just jealous because they wanted him. So I sucked it up and for once in my life trusted him, not that I didn't trust him, but because of family and past relationships I have really bad trust issues. But i really trusted him.. well after a couple months of being together he got kicked out of his moms house, and I don't know why, but I left with him.. I left my house my nice clothes my...everything to be with him. I know you all will say that was a bad idea, cause now I do know that so pleas dont comment on that. But once we found a place to stay, things got tense.. I started to realize a lot.. and I found out he really did cheat on me.. and the three months we stayed at that house he tried his best to hook up with girls and talk and invite them over.. thing is, then he wasn't working I was atleast 40 hours a week. Then we moved back to his moms, but in the apartment below her but only for a month.. and things seemed to get better, although I became pregnant, but i had an abortion.. because my mom was pushing it on me and he kind of made me feel like I trapped him, I stopped taking my birth control although he knew I wasnt.. well once we moved out of his moms we moved into his half brothers very very trashy house. I mean roaches bugs forty very bad house. I cried the hole week before and the hole first week because that's where we were gonna live. I didn't like it at all and it really pulled us apart. We fought all the time and his brother was a complete Assholeee to me because he said I was a "*****". Only because I am one of those girls that has confidence, not to much and not to little. And since moving there everything just kept going down hill more and more. Then we got kicked out because they stole my cat while I was at work and took it to The spca. And we went and stayed at hotels for a month until we got our own apartment, once we got out of his brothers house everything got real good. Bit now the past two months things haven't been so good.  I am now again pregnant, 27 weeks at the moment and he just seems so not interested, like everything else matters. He will treat me ok when he feels like it, but I can just see that he doesn't give a crap anymore, then other day we got into a fight and he tried calling his dad in sc, we are from pa. To move down there. Then lie to me about it after I already knew. He says he wants to be with me BUT he acts just the opposite. And I'm at my wits end, I already feel like I'm going to be a single mother. But idk I just don't know what to do anymore, I feel like I made a lot of mistakes by giving him the second chances by getting pregnant again even though I love my daughter to death already. I feel like I shouldn't have gotten this apartment. I know it will be so hard without him. But I just feel like such a pile of crap.. I dont know what to do or how to confront him about it. Because he is really immature when it comes to talking. If I say I feel this way he will be like oh you don't love me and just go from there. But I do love him. I just don't love what he's doing to me.