I am almost 23 years old. I have been medicated almost my entire life. Probably since the 1st grade at least. I started out on Adderall. I was on that for maybe a year at the most. Then I switched to Ritalin. About the 2nd grade is when I started taking Concerta in the morning and Ritalin around noon. I don't know what dose of Ritalin I took. It was the little yellow pill. The Concerta was probably 36mg which gradually increased to 56mg and finally 72mg in about 7th or 8th grade. Some where in that time frame I also started to take Abilify which was at some point increased from 5mg to 7.5mg. By the time I was a senior in high school, I was still on all 3 medications. When I was finally of legal age, I wanted to stop taking medication all together but I knew I couldn't just stop cold turkey. I had stopped taking the Ritalin the day after I graduated high school and have not taken it to this day. The other two I knew would not be so easy so when I was about 21 years old I had my doctor start decreasing my meds. I first the Abilify until I was no longer on it. Then the Concerta. When the first decrease happened I went from 72mg to 56mg. Within a month or two I went from 56mg to 36mg. Within another month I 36mg to 27mg. Within another month I went from 27mg. to 18mg. I stayed on 18mg for maybe 3 or 4 months. Finally, about 3 weeks ago, I stopped cold turkey. I seem to be doing okay, but I can definitely tell that I am not medicated. I am experiencing withdrawals. I am very tired (although I do stay up late a lot), I don't focus as easily as I used to and I just feel different all around. I am definitely more sensitive emotionally (which both my girlfriend and I see that as a good thing) but I also seem to loose interest in conversation with people more easily. Still, something does not seem right. Am I doing this safely? Should I have done something different? I will admit, I have been having odd thoughts lately. Not so much depression or thoughts of hurting or killing my self. But more of the idea that if I died it wouldn't be such a scary thing. I don't feel sad, just not afraid. Is it weird or bad that I have these cravings for adventurous things that before I would have been afraid to try? Things like hang gliding or skydiving? Or am I just happy to be off of the meds?