I don't know what's wrong with me. At the beginning of this year I wanted a future I wanted more kids.  
   Now? I don't want kids I can't picture the future I have this since of doom over coming me like my time is coming.   I've been having problems with my gallbladder, I have gallstones yet I can't find a doctor who will help me I'm supposed to find a family doctor which is BS schedule three months out and for what? So they can schedule me with a surgeon? 
 That whole thing has me all worked up and I only have insurance through the state for a year and if I don't get help soon I don't know what I'll do.  My father died 4 days after he had his gallbladder taken out. I have no idea why state of Iowa refused to preform an autopsy on him to determine cause of death. Said if we preform autopsy then you have to transport the body my family has no money for that kind of stuff. 
 With me facing the same issue my father did I'm afraid the same thing can happen to me. I don't feel alive like I'm rotting inside out. I'm always tired but when I try to sleep I can't I'm never hungry I haven't eaten in 3 days I'm never thirsty. I only drink maybe 3 bottles of water everyday. I'm over weight I'm not eating not losing weight. I'm lost I try to think but my mind is so clouded I don't feel pleasure happiness excitement I'm empty. All I feel is sadness, like I just want to die, but no one wants to help me... I have a therapist appointment July 12, but what if he doesn't help me what if it's to late what if I don't make it? What if my insurance runs out and I still need help? 
 I don't have friends. My family they are all busy. I'm a stay at home mom. My husband goes to school and college full time when I lay this on him I feel like he is just annoyed with me because he already has so much on his plate. 
 I can't live my life like this anymore. My husband and son deserve better but I'm so lost I don't know what I can do. I've lived my whole life like this off and on. Offs I'll be great happy ready to live but every time I fell back into the slump it's stronger more intense harder to pull myself back 
 Everyday I get worse. I'm a lost cause.   I need help but no one wants to or can.