Im sorry my question is not about BPD but about NPD another personality disorder its important and mental health forum is always shut.
 I really need some information and I believe it is very important. I am not writing here about myself but about another person; a person who I believe may one day put one of my friend’s lives in danger. 
 My friend is in a relationship with her boyfriend they are both 18 and have been together for 2 years. He uses her like a sex doll he’s raped her, screamed and shouted at her, thrown chairs around (but never hit her) he has also cheated on her many times. He abuses her emotionally and sexually as well as physically but to an unknown extent. 
 He shows extreme signs of an exacerbated narcissistic personality disorder, he has to control every single aspect of her life, assert his power over her in every conceivable way, he has such a strong desire for power over her its unbelievable. In addition he is very socially withdrawn and does not socialize at all outside of his one or two ''friends'' which is commonly a underlying characteristic in these kinds of cases.
 One thing that I find quite worrying is that ive suspected he has a severely narcissistic personality disorder of some kind for quite some time now. I have ''known'' him for 8 years we were never friends. He seems to be devoid of any signs of empathy or remorse and even to some extent you could argue fear as well. I find these 3 things very worrying and wonder if there is something more sinister than a possible personality disorder here. 
 I don’t want to go as far as to say sociopathy I know its a very debated subject with many scientists believing due to the nature of in some cases the sufferers being unable to feel emotions leading to the desires of rape and murder etc. Ive never believed it is that serious but what I am trying to say is that he seems to be bordering on many of the signs. I guess I wish to find out if there is anything documented that is similar to what I have discussed but not to the extreme extent of actual sociopathy because I believe he overlaps the diagnosis of NPD by quite considerable margin.  
 Thank you for your time