Hello,
I am an 18 years old male and I have had this problem for several years. Whenever I'm in social situations or around people I find it very hard to talk and be active in conversation. I'll be in conversation and I will be genuinely interested in what someone is saying to me but I will appear like I'm uninterested or I'm annoyed by the person. And when I try to add to the conversation its always something really bland and uninteresting. I'm completely aware when it happens and I try so hard to not be like that but I will always have to fake a laugh or a smile or expression to try and seem more like a normal person should act. People always tell me I'm very drab or someone even told me I don't act like a human once. And that makes me feel terrible. Its also accompanied by feeling very sad, like I've failed. I will feel awful and be thinking of things like suicide but then in a few hours I will feel amazing and it will go back and forth like this and it really interferes with my life. I always feel low on energy and I feel like its related. When it happens I just feel like I don't have enough energy to show how I feel in my expression or body language. And that I don't have enough energy to talk in a more excited or interesting way. I just always come off as being awkward and boring. But the tired feeling I feel isn't as if I didn't sleep enough or something its more like I don't have enough mental energy. oh, this may not be important but I am always always cold and I feel like that's a result of the low energy as well. But I'm not always like this and some days I will feel great and be energetic and funny and my speech sounds very well formed and intelligent and I will feel like I was perfect this day but its very unpredictable and the next day I might be back to a bad day.
 This really really upsets me. I've been dating this girl and I feel terrible sometimes because it will happen to me and I feel like I'm acting really uninterested in her, I really like her but I cant help it. I hate that. I really want to get rid of this and I've tried so hard to correct it. I began to eat very healthy and workout 3 times a week trying to get some more energy. I consider myself in good physical health but this did not help me. I tied making myself happier by being very positive about things and trying to feel better about life but this didn't help. I've tried lots of things to try and get better sleep at night. Sometimes ill try drinking energy drinks/coffee and this helps sometimes but is obviously a temporary solution. Sometimes it wont even help, I'll feel very awake and alert but still feel like there is this wall in my head keeping me from acting like I should. I've even tried meditating but I have trouble getting into it. Every time I have a good day I will sit there and analyze it and look at what was unique and compare similarities between them. All these things have given me a little improvement but its hardly noticeable. Some days I will have an especially bad day and feel back at square one.
 I'm at the point where I don't know what else I can do... I know that I can get rid of this problem because I have good days when I'm perfect but I want more days to be like this. And when I talk to people online I'm fine because i have that extra second to think of something good to say, so I know I have it in me. With this post I was hoping to get more of an idea of what this problem is so that I could make a new strategy to overcome it. Borderline Personality Disorder? Bipolar Disorder? Depression? Some kind of physical disease? Combination? Any ideas or suggestions would be very appreciated. 
 I'm sorry if this wasn't the best category to post in but I feel like it has aspects of a few different disorders and wasn't sure where to put it.