Alright, so I've been in therapy for 13 years, and I've been getting meds for 9. I'm currently 24, and I'll be 25 next week. I first used pot when I was 18, but didn't use regularly till I was 20, and stopped completely 2 months ago. The cannabis caused minor hallucinations, mostly visual will occasionally unexplainable sounds. That's the predominant reason why I stopped. I also made promises that I intend to keep. Before I stopped, I was diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder, and was put on several medications to control my hallucinations, as well as remaining on antidepressants. I was mainly told I was hallucinating because I smoked marijuana, and that if I stopped, the hallucinations might stop. Also, I was told the use of pot would interfere with the function of my antipsychotics. So, after a run-in with the police whereby my pipes were confiscated, I decided I've had enough. I wasn't smoking pot at the time, but that's not the issue.
I expected the hallucinations to continue during the month that I was off of the substance, due to the length of time it takes for a regular user's body to cleanse itself of THC. My meds are changed from Loxapine (30 mg), Effexor (300 mg) and Seroquel (300 mg) to Saphris (10 mg) and the same amount of Effexor, because I had been rapidly gaining weight with no change to my diet and exercise. I didn't start hallucinating until about two weeks into the quitting process, and the hallucinations continued well into the second month, at which time I began getting headaches. I also can hardly eat, as every time I put something in my stomach I suffer from severe nausea. The nausea started when I began the saphris, as well as the headaches. Not severe headaches, predominantly a sense of pressure with a small amount of pain. My meds are changed again, because I tell my doctor the saphris is making me physically ill and the effexor is not helping at all in stabilizing my mood. He puts me on latuda (40 mg) and takes me off of effexor by giving me pristiq, the active ingredient in that med being a metabolite of venlafaxine so that I might escape the brunt of withdrawal from such a high dose of effexor. The hallucinations worsen, the headaches remain constant. This is about 3 weeks ago. At this point I can no longer fall asleep in a dark room, or even spend time in one, due to severe hallucinations; gathering shadows, figures in my peripheral vision, flashes of light, fractal patterns. At no point in my current hallucinations do I hear anything out of the ordinary. I describe my hallucinations to my psychiatrist, who says he wants to up the dose of my latuda to 80 mg. He also says if this med doesn't work, he has nothing left to try and I'm no longer under his care. A week goes by, the hallucinations get even worse. I can no longer look at other people unless they're in a well-lit area, otherwise their faces transform and they appear no longer human. At this point I can't recognize my face in the mirror unless I have the bathroom lights on, even during the day with natural light coming in through the window. I tell my doctor about this, and he suddenly decides that my hallucinations aren't psychiatric in nature, which is why his meds aren't working. He suggests that I've been taking hard drugs, as lingering chemical activity from such substances would definitely cause the hallucinations I've been describing. He also says the hallucinations may be caused by a mass in my brain. I schedule an MRI for the following week, which would be this week.
Monday rolls around. I'm still taking my meds, still hallucinating. However, the headaches have progressed from a simple pressure with minor pain, to a stabbing in my meninges that gets progressively worse over 15 minutes and then goes away for an hour, only to come back when I think it's over. Not as bad as a migraine, but what I neglected to mention is that none of the headaches I've experienced over the past month are affected by painkillers. I think I'm in the middle of an emergency situation, so I go to the ER. I describe my troubles to the ER, who schedule an emergency MRI, along with some urine and blood screening. Blood and urine come back clean, no residual THC or evidence of any other drugs, nor is there evidence of a cancerous mass in my blood. MRI comes back clean. No evidence of ANY sort of mass in my brain, nor is there evidence of lingering chemical activity from hard drugs, which would really have surprised me if I had actually been doing any in the first place. I'm told I'm not hallucinating, that what I'm seeing are merely peculiarities of my sight. This doesn't explain the colors I see when I close my eyes, the moving points of light I see when I look at any illuminated surface, the squirrel I saw running on the wall in my girlfriend's bedroom (that turns out to be a stationary dreamcatcher), or the severed head that was in my bed on Monday morning. The ER doc suggests I admit myself to the hospital so my meds can be adjusted. I tell him matter-of-factly that I've already been on every antipsychotic on the market and that nothing works anyway, or it causes negative side-effects, like when my white blood cells were dropped from taking clozaril, or when abilify and geodon (on separate occasions) caused both tardive diskinesia and painful paralysis of my face and neck. I'm scheduled to see my psychiatrist this Friday. He's used to things he tries working eventually. Statistically, they should. However, nothing he's given me so far has controlled my hallucinations or reduced my depression for more than 2 months at a time, so I'm inclined to think I simply have an extremely resistant form of schizoaffective, as well as depression. Or some as yet undiagnosed neurological disorder on top of Asperger's syndrome.