My wife is Korean.  We have a 10 month old daughter.  We live in Korea, have no family on either side around us and I speak no Korean.  The following is a description of my wifes behaviour since i met her 3 years ago.  Some of it may be seen as just cultural or language differences, but clearly there is something far more significant going on. 
 *  She gets very very angry, usually over almost nothing.  She cannot control her temper and if i react to the bait she will immediately say 'let's divorce', in fact almost every single minor disagreement ends up with her saying 'i want to divorce'.  Recently she has started to have violent tendencies, throws and smashes things and has hit me on a few ocassions.  Within a day or two of each serious argument she will behave as though nothing happened, but will refuse to talk about any past incident or violent behaviour.  At the moment these arguments are happening twice a week - in the fairly recent past we could two or three weeks without one.
 This I guess is the crux of our relationship problem... other traits or characteristics of my wife that I think are not particular normal are as follows - 
 *  Suffers a lot from stress, which she feels very easily.  
*  a little sensitive to noise and sound
*  cannot multitask very well
*  has a very poor memory for events, but decent for phone numbers etc.
*  can be very rude - especially to me when asking for mundane things (pass the tissues, close the door etc)
*  almost never apologises for anything serious, if i challenge her she will sometimes make a ridiculous excuse to explain her behaviour... but often simply refuses to answer or gets extremely angry at any question that exposes her behaviour.
*  when angry blames me for almost every single aspect of her life.
*  prior to meeting me was very promiscuous with numerous one night stands.
*  Has a few friends, but no one close.
*  has a difficult relationship with some family members - 
*  During her pregnancy was an absolute nightmare in trimester 1, but absolutely lovely for the duration of trimester 2.
 I have spoken to her about her behaviour, i have suggested she needs some kind of mental help - although often at the tail end of a horendous row rather than in calmer moments.. she rejects any suggestion out of hand, saying I am the cause of any problem and that she was absolutely fine before she met me.
 It is a very difficult situation, considering how isolated we are and how difficult it is for me to be aware of and to contact any appropriate advice or services.  Mental health issues tend to still be ignored and are percieved very negatively in Korea - I love my wife but it is extremely hard to like her 20% of the time and now my main priority is our daughter who at the moment is the sole reason for us still to be living together.  I simply don't know what to do.  Any help or advice would be strongly appreciated.