Hey everyone, 
 I have a question.  I'm not sure if I should be worried or not but I have a son who is 15 almost 16 years old.  He has had some strange things going on with him and I'm kind of nervous.  Let me give you the history first.  Last November we took him into the doctor because he has 3 swollen lymph nodes we could feel.  One was by his jaw another in front of his ear and the last down by his collar bone.  The one by his jaw was huge and was visible without even touching it.  About the size of a small egg.  He was not sick nor had he been sick for a long time.  They did an ultrasound of it but never did anything else.  Blood work ruled out Mono, Cat Scratch Fever, and various other things.  They did eventually go away but they never did any biopsy or anything.  Around March he said he had a bump on his right leg about a 1/4 of the way down from his knew.  I showed the doctor the bump and she felt it was most likely a injury from sports or something.  My son has aspergers and sports isn't his thing.  He doesn't tend to be the wrestling around type.  Regardless, she told us to watch it, it would probably go away on its own.  Since then my doctor has moved out of state and we have moved as well.  My son has started complaining that he has been waking up completely soaked in his bed.  The bump is still there.  He says when he is in PE he has noticed his right leg starts tiring much faster than his left leg.  You can visibly see the bump and it appears to be non moveable and not rock hard but firmer than squishy if that makes sense.  We had an ultrasound done and it showed absolutely nothing out of the ordinary.  The tech even said she could see exactly where we were talking about.  My son was at his friends house the other day and they were watching tv and he moved to a different seat and my son's friends mom came and sat in the chair and she told me it was soaked.  She said my son said he just does that sometime.  I noticed he is changing his underwear all the time because he is soaking through them.  She said they had not been doing anything to cause them to be sweating. We have a MRI scheduled.  Is there a reason a ultrasound would not pick this up?  Is a MRI all I should ask for?  Should I ask for a biopsy especially if it comes back normal?  Are MRI's better at picking up things then ultrasound?