Hello to all and thanks for taking the time to read this.
 I have been in an emotionally abusive relationship with my wife for the past 15 years. I have only very recently (several days ago) begun to understand what this really means and how some of the destructive aspects of this relationship seem to work. I have not been able to face and begin dealing with this directly until now. I have been living in denial for a long time.
 I don’t believe that what I’m about to describe has ever been witnessed by anyone except me and my wife. What happens remains hidden from view, and has been happening since before we became intimately involved.
 I am a 47-year-old man who is married to a 45-year-old woman. We have lived together for 15 years and have been married for the last 10 years. We continue to live together. My wife and I are both intelligent and educated people who are generally well-regarded by those around us.
 We are deeply involved in a continuing cycle of emotional violence that manifests itself like this: I will say something (some comment, observation, remark, etc.) to my wife and she does not respond, neither verbally nor by using a gesture or some other body motion. In other words, there is no acknowledgement that anything was said by me. Since there is no response from her I usually will ask her something like, "Did you hear what I said?"
 When the cycle of violence is active she will continue to ignore me (as if I were ‘invisible’ and ‘mute’), but I need to stress that this cycle doesn't take place every time I say something to her. It seems to be triggered by something I can't identify. I feel it must be something that is somehow threatening her, but that’s just speculation since I really can’t know what’s happening in her mind.
 If the cycle is active and I am ignored for a second time, then my fear of abandonment (which I have carried with me since childhood) intensifies and ‘hijacks’ my higher mental processes. My fear takes over and then begins to drive my anger. I then punish and abuse her verbally. I am outraged that the woman who loves and supports and obviously cherishes me in so many different ways could treat me so shabbily...and I tell her so, in no uncertain terms. I can be very cutting, and this is exactly what happens. I verbally cut my wife to shreds. When I begin to attack her verbally, she quickly makes it obvious to me that I am no longer ‘invisible’ or ‘mute’. She will begin to return my verbal abuse with angry secondary abuse, which takes the form of an attempt to deflect any responsibility for her behavior, quite often by attempting to blame me for starting the whole thing. She verbally indicates to me that she is justified in her behavior and thus justified in abusing me. This only increases my anger and round and round we go. This will continue until one of us leaves the presence of the other and the cycle seems to end, or at least pauses. We both go away feeling incredibly hurt and emotionally abandoned by the other person.
  I’m not sure when the cycle really ends though, because if my wife attempts an apology after we’ve cooled down some it generally takes the form of  “I’m sorry I can’t be better for you” and “I’m sorry I can’t do things the way you want me to do them” (Emphasis hers).  Perhaps I’m being insensitive, but these don’t sound much like apologies to me. The first one sounds like she’s saying “It’s unfortunate that you feel like you’re being abused” and the second one sounds like “I think you’re being unreasonable to object to my abuse of you”. My wife seems unable to even acknowledge the damage she causes, much less truly apologize for it. These ‘apologies’ quite frequently result in another screaming match. The good part of me recognizes how damaging this behavior is, but the bad part of me can’t seem to stop it.
 I want to stress that I don’t feel that this description is necessarily 100% accurate or complete, due to my lack of objectivity, but I strongly feel that, at the very least, something similar to this must be occurring. I feel that it’s very possible there may be other things at work here and this may only be the beginning. 
 I am 100% responsible for the damage I cause in this cycle of violence. I am guilty of inflicting horrific, repeated damage on the woman that I love. My wife does not cause me to react to her the way I do. The responsibility for my reaction is solely mine, and I need to start taking positives steps to keep this from happening ever again.
  I am actively seeking an individual therapist who can help me overcome the effects of my wife’s abuse as well as help me cope with my fear of abandonment. In addition to this, it’s imperative that I get anger management help, and quickly. I feel that I am finally ready and able to work with a competent therapist to address these and any other issues that I may subsequently discover during my therapy.
  All comments are appreciated. Thank you again for reading this.
 Sincerely,
A Very Troubled Person