I have a lot of anger and resentment for what my spouse is doing.  We have been married 34 years and now he is involved with a 24 year old (he’s 56).  Our youngest child is 28!  We attended church and married under the Christian covenant with me believing the union was until death.  I feel like my husband has died and another person has taken over his personality.  It has been suggested that he is going through a mid-life crisis.  I kicked him out of our house in April after finding his cell phone bill and seeing how many times a day he was calling her and knowing he was sneaking around to see her.  He moved into another house that we own.  Two months ago I saw him right across the street from the house where I still reside, with his harlot.   Due to her extreme irresponsibility of being evicted so many times; he rented the house for her.   His name is on the lease and utilities.  It has been devastating seeing his car parked across the street when he comes to pick her up for their dates/outings or when he spends the nights there.  She is a known heroin addict.  This summer the county ended up taking her two illegitmate children away from her due to her addiction.   My spouse used to spend more time with her kids then his own family; even to taking them to DisneyWorld in Florida.  She doesn’t work, whereas I spent all of our marriage working outside the home.  I would have liked to stay home to provide more care to the children and home.   He totally supports her including buying her cigarettes, when he used to say that smokers were scum of the earth.   Her driver’s license was revoked by the court.  She has been arrested for theft and has even stolen from her family members.  I just don't get his attraction to her.  My spouse and I were still communicating until recently.  He told me this week that he no longer wants anything to do with me and I need to contact a lawyer for a dissolution.     
Our two daughters aren’t happy with what he is doing but yet they won’t confront him about it.  I’m the one who gets the backlash on how I should just let it go and get on with my life.  After investing all those years, I feel lost, alone and wondering what it is I did to deserve being trreated like a speck of dirt.  It is a struggle just to get up in the morning.  Thank you.