i recently got divorced after being married for 3 years, but had been with him for nearly 13. we have 3 children together. he was emotionally abusive to me for most of that time, but it wasn't the obvious abuse, and i wasn't aware that that is what it was.  he was extremely difficult to live with, and i had finally had enough and ended up leaving everything and spending 4 days in the mental health unit at the hospital.  i've been very sick for the last several years and i wasn't the best mom i suppose. my kids are healthy and happy, and thats what counts to me.  they went to school, they are extremely smart, they got fed, had clean clothes, had whatever they needed.  but my ex put me down so often that i started to feel and believe that i was completely worthless. my self worth became dependent on how clean the house was, which wasn't as bad as he would make people believe, except for me.  i needed help, not degradation. so i finally got away from him, but had to give up physical custody of my kids because i did not have a stable home for them, nor was i emotionally stable to take care of them.  they had a home they were comfortable in and i did not want to take them away from that.  but in doing so, i have screwed myself as a mother. my ex is extremely controlling and manipulative and has absolutely no problem in bringing up all my supposed shortcomings (in his opinion), but they are unbelievably painful, and he does it in front of my kids.  me and the kids have great relationships, and even though i visit only 3 days a week, i spend more time with them than he does, but they are not allowed at my home because of my current relationship, and only because he's allowing his personal feelings to get in the way. now, even though its been almost a year, i still cannot be around him or talk to him without experiencing nearly paralyzing anxiety and just cannot seem to defend myself. i see a counselor at a domestic violence shelter every week, but am realizing that i need more help than that.  what else can i do? i hope this is sufficient explanation, its probably a little wacky.  there is so much that has happened, its hard to pinpoint the most important aspects without it becoming a novel.