hello there! i am 15 and im suffereing from a disease called "puberty"... i think. im a size 12, but weel like a size 112, im eating way too music ****, to thats making be hyper, then depressed. im in my last few months of skl *im from england by the way* and its getting a bit too mushc for me. i hate my image and i want to change, its just aquard asking you parents for PVC gothic clothing thats all!
as you've probally guessed, i'm broken hearted, but what's worse is that its ben breoken, and broken and broken and broken, by the same person, and now hes basically told me that he never wants me again. he been toying with me, flurting, then saying "no we should stop". at one point he said he loved me, and a few hours later he said "oh no we should stop...and its come to this.
yes i self harm, and yes he knows, he said thats y we split up, but theres more to it i know...or it could just be the fact that hes male. all i know is that, im stuck in a cycle, and im constantly worried that i'll loose him. this is not me speaking a chiche!
ppl say "you need to get over him" and "its time you moved on", but i tried that, and i got treated like a piece of ****...and what the hell would they know! they dont know how i feel, i dont even know if i know how i feel, what i do know is that im lonley.
i want to loose my virginity before in 16, but at this rate, i never will. he says im paranoid, and i do get stressed alot. i am frustrated and i believe its sexual. 
"what is the quesion" i hear you ask. well i simply dont have one. i just want someone close to me, and him leaving makes me feel like theyll be no tomorrow without him. i love him so much, and he just cant see it. he says our love faded away, and the tried to make it all work, he thought about it so hard, and he said he would be lieing to himself if we got back together. But what he doesnt realise is that i knew him for one day when he asked me out, and i have no where near as much love as i do for him now, i just didnt know him that well, but i took the chance and we went out for 3 months.
i just want him to realise that hes not right all the time. you dont know unless you try. but hw ront listen. he says he doesnt like anyone else, but it makes me feel sick when hes even with another girl...maybe im just going crazy...but do you blame me. hes cute in his own way, and im scared that ill loose him. he says he wants me to be happy, well theres only one way that will happen, but he doesnt want to take the chance. 
i think i scared him away when i mentioned the "S**" word.
im willing to die for him.
he believes that when im in pain its my fault. he left me cause i self harmed and he thought it was his fault, but i just did it more because he dumped me.i did it before i knew him. its was not his fault. but he left me anyway. and now im stuck on my own. i dont have a life with out him. but i guess thats how im destined to be.