My family is making me so angry, I just had to write about it. 
 I am trying my best to practice not getting angry, because I do have a very bad temper, but they are really pushing my buttons today!
 I spent the weekend with a major migraine, and now it is slowly creeping back from all the commotion,\.
 My daughter wrote a very cutting remark about me posting messages to people she went to school with on FB. The thing is they write to me. I have known most of them since Public School, when I used to teach remedial reading, so they like to add me as a friend. In her mind I am too old to be chatting with people her age...does that mean I shouldnt talk to her anymore, especially after the names she called me.
 Then my husband tells me he doesnt trust me with the mailbox key - can you imagine!  What he is waiting for is a chq for me for my disability. When it comes I can foresee a major arguement. I agree I owe him, as he has been supporting me for a year now, but in his mind he has been supporting me forever, so yes, he is entitled to some of the money, but he wants to use it to buy a flat screen TV. I think that is not utilizing the money properly, we still owe friends and family. Then he accused me of stealing cigarettes, which I didnt. I woke up last night, opened a pack because I was running low, and I put half in his pack and half in mind, but he says I didnt. So I didnt wake up, I didnt open a pack of smokes it was all in my head - NOT.
 I really dont like when someone tells me what I am thinking or how I feel, only I know that, otherwise it is just an assumption.
 And as for my daughter..I dont want to talk to her for a while, she keeps on saying things like "whatever your so called bi-polar makes you do....", she doesnt even think I have bi-polar, my husband told her on the weekend that at the very minimum I have it, so being a daddy's girl, she accepted it, but is now using it against me. The real fact is that my main illness is Schizoaffective Disorder w/ Bi-Polar 1 and other issues such as anger, depression, OCD, PTSD etc..but she doesnt believe in any of that.
 I have been trying very hard to avoid confrontations, so I say nothing, or leave the room, but inside I am just ready to burst, and if you have an anger problem, you know how it is, you let things build up until you explode, then you are exhausted and usually regretting things you said...but they are getting close to pushing the wrong button.
 Its one thing to have the public have a bad attitude to mental illness, but when your family also does, it makes life so much harder.
 Thanks for letting me vent.