I have concerns about my sister-in-law and her current mental state, but I’m not sure if they are valid mental health issues and if so what to do.
 She has two children 6 and 3 and refuses to feed them anything other than take out food, mac and cheese, cereal and crackers. She claims this is the only food they will eat, but recently she was going to feed the youngest a bowl of cereal for supper and I begin to fix a plate of nutritious food for the child and she uncharacteristically became angry snapping at me and refused to let the child eat anything but dry cereal. 
 She claims her children are sick with fevers, vomiting, colds, ear infections and sore throats constantly. She insists they are sick even when I can see for myself or others can see there is nothing wrong with the children. She takes the children to the emergency room over two times a month, plus she will take them for doctor’s appointments claiming they are ill. She also claims to be ill when there is no supporting evidence. She claimed to have two blood clots in her lungs during the summer and was in the hospital for a week, but there was not medical evidence what was physically wrong with her. She has a large amount of over the counter medication and prescription medication in her home. Also, during the summer she stayed with me and brought a large freezer bag full of medication, but wouldn’t tell me what it was. My mother has confronted her about medicating the children and herself but she denies administering the medication (Tylenol so the kids sleep) even if my mom just saw her give it to the kids an hour before. 
 She sleeps most of the day and the youngest runs wild while she sleeps. Her house is absolute squalor with old take out boxes stacked up, smelling diapers in the garbage cans, piles of dirty clothes smelling like mold and the floors are full of spilt food and chocolate milk. Her mom cleans her house when she has the energy to, but it becomes disgusting again in a matter of days. Last summer my son took out 26 black bags of garbage that were piled up in the back porch. 
 She doesn’t care about her appearance and eats high fat food she has gain a tremendous amount of weight in the past year. She started smoking and lies about doing so even if you mention the yellow marks on her fingers, or that she smells like smoke. 
 She basically refuses to work and lies to get out of going by claiming she sick or the kids are. She works in a hospital as a LPN. 
 She spends money excessively on food and useless thing then lies to her husband about spending the money. She shops when ever she can even if they can’t afford it. 
 She lies all the time about things that are completely untrue, saying her husband sexually abuses her, that her parents abused her, that her sister verbally abuses her. She tells anyone that listens to her these horrible stories that are completely fabricated. She doesn’t care how much these lies hurt others and there is no reason for her to say these things. 
 We know that she takes paxil, but we don’t know what else she takes. What is going on?