I've had this feeling happen in almost every relationship I've had since I was 16. I'm 23 now. About once every few months, I get into a mood of emotional disconnect, and it upsets me. 
Currently, I have been with my boyfriend for about four months, and have noticed this emotional disconnect happen a few times since. During, I'm not willing to open up about my feelings, I don't feel close to him, I can't accept his love and I don't want to even see him. If he looks at me kindly it makes my stomach sick and if he does something sweet for me it makes me feel guilty that I'm using him. This only worries me because it has resulted in my feeling emotionally disconnected more and more often the longer I am with someone, and has ended up in termination. I know I care about him, the feeling just goes away for a few days. I don't want this to ruin my relationship I have with him, because he is very important to me. I experience these feelings with friends, but it doesn't bother me as much because the emotional attachment isn't as intimate.
I know that my issue with intimacy may stem from my relationship with my mother, who was emotionally and physically abusive for the 17 years that I lived with her. I now live in another state and while the emotional abuse continues, the physical abuse has stopped. I just want to make some steps forward to solving this problem. I don't know if I'm depressed (occasionally?), bipolar (I think my mother expressed symptoms of bipolar disorder but refuses to be diagnosed) or have PTSD. I have taken a few steps to determine my mental health but I mostly don't know where to start. I've tried counselors, but it's become emotionally exhausted to explain my position to a counselor I don't connect with well. I have also searched for local support groups. The one I found is for mental illness, so I'm not sure if I fit. 
Does anyone have any advice? Have you felt this emotional numbness before and how did you address the issue and solve it? I'm getting a little overwhelmed here because I do not want this relationship to end like the others have.