What type of behavior is this?: It's my mother's birthday, a room of 15 people bring out a cake and proceed to sing happy birthday. Almost at the end of the song, my mother makes everyone stop, runs and gets her video camera, points it at herself, then insists that everyone start over, while she sings along and fills in the blank with "happy birthday to ME" while she smiles into the camera while dancing around. It makes everyone uncomfortable, but they know she will throw a tantrum if they don't play along.
My mother also feels she has the right to give out my sister's # to completely strange men, insisting it is HER life and she can do what she wants, even though it's not her #.  
I went cross country skiing with her 4 years ago.  I skiied down a hill and fell at the bottom. I got up laughing hysterically at myself. She came up behind and fell on her butt just like I did. Her tailbone hurt and we walked back to the car. Now, 4 years later, she retells the event: She fell, hit her head, was knocked out, woke up on her face to me standing over her laughing. Now she is claiming brain damage from the incident.
Also, she asked me to knit her a poncho, then accused me of using evil, hateful colors (red and black) and wouldn't take it. 
Growing up, she would claim to be too broke for anything school or sport related, but would take us out to VERY expensive meals the same night. She makes $80,000 grand/year, I asked for help with buying a house, she said she didn't have $, but  gave me $1000 worth of rare plants for my new shower that died in 2 days, while my sister is on welfare with 2 kids trying to get through nursing school.
She called to ask if I wanted perfume for x-mas and I said, no, ABSOLUTELY not. 2 days later, I got perfume. The year before she asked what I wanted, I said $ or a drafting desk. So instead she gave me $800 worth of winter gear, right before my move to the desert. 
She gets ahold of business relations of mine, or old boyfriends, and accuses people of sexually harrasing me or mistreating me. 
I can't talk to her because she will twist my words and tell the family outlandish things like, my boyfriend is a murderer, I'm homeless, a drug addict, you name it.
The even crazier thing, my somewhat sane sister enjoys her and tolerates her, and even gets manipulated into believing that I'm just over reacting and being mean to mom. She snaps out of it, but it has really hurt me my whole life.
Is something seriously wrong with my mother?