My family is significantly religious, and my mother in particular is very adamant about her Catholic faith and beliefs. I am sixteen years old now. I am sixteen years old now. Three years ago when I was in church I firmly believed I had a private revelation that I was going to be killed. I did not hear a voice, but it may have been what Christians call "spiritual impression". I told this to my father and best friend, and did not talk about it excessively but when I did I delighted in the supposition that I was special. I mention this because, although this happened long before my actual problems, I believe this precluded a lot of it. 
 a year after that in (I think it was) February my best friend abruptly moved out of the state. She has always been willingly close to me and supportive, I must admit that my relationship with her had become codependent. Immediately after I saw her off, I got on my knees and said a rosary, feeling as if something was changing, that I had more responsibility to my faith just because she had left. From there on out my thoughts became increasingly grandiose and delusional. I was obsessed with prayer and thought God was telling me to do very trivial things such as what subject in my schoolwork I should work on, (this was possible because I was homeschooling), or giving me detailed insight into the future. I acknowledged that these thoughts and perceived obligations were wearing me down, and slowly came to realize that thinking these things were wrong. I mean to point out that there were lapses in these thoughts, and at times I did believe that I was elaborating them of my own will. (perhaps so I could have control over my life?)
 it came to a point where I believed I should hurt myself in order to purge other people's sins, something Medieval saints did, particularly the one I chose for confirmation, Saint Catherine. (she was most definitely an inspiration for this). my mother and sister coaxed me out of doing these things, and I begged my mother to hide things like matches and scissors because I was scared of the inclinations to hurt myself. 
 I understood that everything that had happened to me (all of the above occurred over a period of approximately six months) since my best friend went out of the state was completely wacko, and I pulled myself out of the delusions gradually. I was very sensitive at the time, couldn't do schoolwork, and came back to the internet and literature (things I had avoided during my period of delusional thinking because I thought them to be unholy), but in general regained my sense of reality. However, effects of that period lingered; and still do. A few months after I considered myself nearly completely recovered I had panic attacks and insomnia. All of my symptoms matched up with General Anxiety Disorder when my mom looked it up on the internet. (I'd like to add that I had mild symptoms of GAD when I hit puberty, but after these six months they were noticeably severe) I do still have symptoms of GAD and insomnia, but cognitive therapy has almost completely relieved onsets of panic attacks.
 is there anyone who can figure out whether the aforementioned symptoms and delusions were those of schizophrenia? my journey "back into reality" is something I don't hear about much in the context of something like schizophrenia, and thought it would be important to fully explain. Most people with GAD struggle with the fear of having a mental disorder, and whether I have one or not is of concern.  
 Thanks,
 -  Malon93