This is going to be extremely long and I am very sorry but I am getting to the point where I am ready to kill myself.
 I am currently 15 although in a few days I will be turning 16.
I have stopped going to school at shortly after turning 15. 
The problem is I suffer from major depression and it's taking such a toll on my life that I barely function or leave my bed at all. I barely get up to urinate,sometimes I go a day or two without a shower and I never brush my hair.
Leaving the house never happens unless it's to go to therapy and sometimes I even skip therapy sessions because I honestly don't care.
I don't want to get better,I don't see the point in it.
Before I go into detail of why I don't care I wish to explain a little more of my current situation.
I am the youngest child and the preferred of my mother. 
A lot of people would say "OH YOU ARE HER BABY OF COURSE YOU ARE"
No that is not the reason or at least not all of it.
My father is a very strong narcissist with a very big ego and my mother is a sheltered loner who has no friends.
The only person in her life is my father who she has tried and keeps trying to ruin so he will come back to her.
He is her life and I am her favorite because I am the only child she has had with him.
She was in abusive relationship with the father of my older siblings and has always put me or my father over them.
This is bad because not only did it strain their relationship with hers it strained the one I have with them.
My father did awful things to one of my siblings and my mother actually told them to the police they were lying so my father would not end up in jail. She also bullied my other one for looking just like their father.
I was too young to know any of this and didn't find out till YEARS later so for a long time I looked up to my father.
My mother sheltered me and my father gave me affection, seeing as my mother isn't good with people.
Thus I grew close to my father and was very bonded to him for a long time. 
However he moved because they wanted to live in different cities but were still together. At this time I saw him a few times a month.
A few years later me and my mother move back to my hometown. Just me and her.
She suddenly rips up photos of him one day and tells me he doesn't love me and that I have to hate him. I was around 7 or 8 at this time. 
I was also being bullied and had began to learn how to make friends because in the other town I had none.
I started to see him less and she would have times where she loved him and times where she hated him.
She also tried to hang herself and because she sheltered me so much I didn't know what she was doing but I had a bad feeling so I stopped her.
She ended up driving him away for a year and told me every single bad thing about him that she knew.
Things a child at that age should never know or hear.
This in turn has caused me to suffer from problems such as being too possessive over people because of my fear of them leaving me or not loving me. I have turned very manipulative like her and will make threats so my friends feel like they can't leave.I do not mean them and sometimes I do make them as a joke.
After finding out about these things my father did and after all the bullying I became depressed.
I was fine at first and had friends and did things.
But as I started 8th grade I made less friends and did less things.
Instead of going outside with friends i'd come home from school and sleep. Or i'd hop straight into bed and never get out.
Around the end of the year in last year I couldn't take it anymore and stopped going to school.
I stopped talking to friends and I started sleeping all day and being awake most of the night.
Around this time I also noticed that I didn't care about my life anymore.
I noticed that I don't add anything important to this world and I could easily be replaced by someone pretty and smart.
I've accepted that I don't matter and that I am truly not going to get better and that's ok.
I don't see the point in living for the good moments if I only have one and live surrounded in bad.
Although I only feel this way about myself and will always try to help out anyone in need.
I am just like my mother and as much as I wouldn't mind having a relationship I am too scared of being manipulative because I have turned this way and I don't think it can change.
So I don't really look forward to getting married having kids.
I don't know what to do though because I am scared of pain even things like needles or being pinched.
I don't self harm because of this though.
I can deal with nausea pretty well though so I have been thinking of that.
 Maybe you'll think "if you dont care why did you write this?"
I don't know really, if I get help thats fine but if I dont thats fine too.
Yes I go to therapy and I take medication and I have home therapy
No I don't have friends or people I cant talk to most of the time since my "friends" are online and they have different time zones and they have better friends to worry about.
They even think I fake this or that its not a big deal even though they themselves go through similar things.
So no i don't really have a support group either.
  I hope I don't sound snippy or mean i'm just really tired of everything.