Exactly 3 years ago this week I had two diverticulum rupture in my Sigmoid Colon...nearly died.  Was rushed to the ER where a wonderful doc removed 12 inches of my colon to keep me alive.  I have become very close to this man since that time.  WHen I woke up he was standing there...I was barely able to put a sentence together but I asked him "Doctor...what caused this?"  His immediate response was "Stress!"
 I put alot of pressure on myself to perform.  When this happened I was running my own business and was approachingn $1M in annual sales....ALL BY MYSELF!  You can imagine the stress...it was constant....but....some of  it was self-imposed.
 I hate making mistakes and when self employed if you make a mistake it costs YOU money...not the company you work for.  I had the business for 7 years when my colon ruptured.
 Since that time you would think I would relax and not be so high strung....but I'm just the opposite.  I cant go to sleep at night without a sleep aid because I'm constantly replaying the days events and worrying what will happen tomorrow...THATS CRAZY!
 Anyway...my point is.....stress has caused several different health problems for me.  I'm actually very active...work out every morning in the garage and watch what I eat but seem to keep having health issues.  Allergies, chronic pain and digestive problems....all of them are due to the stress I impose on myself.
 My best friend is from Jamaica and self employed, I'm white by the way.  If you have never been to Jamaica you should go but dont get in a hurry.  My friend will be late to his own funeral.  He told me  that in Jamaica stress, heart problems, high blood pressure, etc is virtually non existent.  Think about it...their national comment is "Soon come"  which translated in American means "on it's way...some day."  
 This is easier said than done but life is too short to be stressed out, worried about what tomorrow brings and what the boss thinks....he can kiss my azz.  Tomorrow is a new day and if we can just relax, laugh at ourselvs a little we can enjoy this ride called life and lower our blood pressure.