Hi, I'd like to start off by saying thank you to anyone who takes the time to read this. It feels really good to finally get this off my chest. 
Well, I'm currently a student. Throughout my life, I've always been very self driven. I've always loved learning, and am a straight A student. But, for the past few months, I've been feeling awfully confused. Every time I sit down and try to study/work, I simply can't. It's like this huge internal conflict. I want to, but at the same time I don't want to work. My attention span and focus have simply gone down the drain. And it has gotten to this point where it's been really affecting me. For my previous set of exams, a few months ago, I had had plenty of time to study/revise. But I did not. I really do not know if this will make any sense at all, but I had lost the ability to be worried. I would keep telling myself that I had to work but the other side of me that just wants to sleep and waste time would take over. This made me really paranoid and sad and scared ....And even during those short-lived moments where I felt motivated to study my focus was pretty crappy. Now, I'd like to reinstate that this is not a case of sheer laziness. I know myself enough to know how important my academics are to me. What is really really scaring me is that I am no longer able to worry about my grades, even though I am aware that they have been slowly slipping. What's worse is that I have little time left till my next exams and these exams will actually count for my college acceptance. I am really just lost and completely hopeless right now. I've worked hard all of my life to achieve my goals and dreams, and now this crappy time I'm going through could render all those efforts useless. I need to start studying for the upcoming exams, I need to get my motivation back and understand what is happening to me. I am really so scared.
I decided to open up about this a few months ago and went to a therapist. However, I did not tell my entire story, I mean I downplayed everything basically. I am now on a low dose of SSRI. It has somewhat helped to calm me down, but hasn't helped otherwise. He ruled out ADHD and depression after some questionnaires, so I do not know what is wrong with me at this point....I don't know. I want to get over this. I would really appreciate any advice/help.
Thank you