Hello My name is Toni, I am a 32 year old mom of 2 children. I am in such acute pain I cant even get out of bed or lift my arms or legs anymore. When I walk..I fall. When I crawl I have to stop every couple of feet just to rest. I have gone to doctors galore and I am constantly getting looked at and talked to like I am crazy, and told I there is no way I can possibly hurt this bad. I have even been accussed of drug seeking. Lets put it this way..I hate pills, I choke on them anything bigger than an advil anyway. A little history, I am diabetic (juv. type 1) in good contrl on insulin pump. I have a child who has a list of mental problems ADHD, Asperger's Syndrome, Bipolar w/pycotic features, depression, and a learning disorder. And I have a daughter who suffers from Chronic constipation and gastric reflux disease. If that werent bad enough I live with my 86yr old grandmother to take care of her, and my mother who is addicted to gambling and freaks if I ask her for a night off.  Plus several other nightmares/mistakes (my sons father) in my life which just cant go away. I have had MRI after MRI, a list of blood tests that go a mile long, xrays, eeg's, ekg's etc...etc... Guess what they all come back negative. I've had one dr say yes you have degenerative disk disease and the next say that there is no evidence of it. and another say I have Osteoarthritis and then the next say no I dont. Then someone throws a fybromyalgia label on me and now that is the excuse for everything. About 2 years ago I had a problem in my shoulder that I couldnt raise my arm up,pick up anything without dropping it, constant burning pain, if I bumped my arm on wall or chair when I walked past it I was in so much pain that I was on the floor curled into a fetal pos. and throwing up from the pain. This exact same pain has spead to my other shoulder, my chest, my hip my knees and my toes. You cant even run your fingers down along sides of my spine or I scream and curl backwards uncontrollably. What the Hell Is going on with me, is it all in my head, and if it is why is requiring surgeries? Can it all be stress?
      I should mention when I had the surg. on my left shoulder the doctor removed a bone spur, inflamed tissue, minor arthritis, and "tightened" one of my tendons. a minimal amout of the pain is gone and I still cant raise my hand over my head. My mom has to brush my hair and wash it. that another thing I also am so bad I need help just bathing. its embarrassing. Please this has got to stop. where do I go what do I do...Ill try anything at this point.