Hi guys,
 I'm literately on the verge to exploding (mentally). Too long have I been put up with this ****!!!! I'm going no where in life. 
 1. I'm studying a Law/Commerce degree. Received terrible grades (GPA - 4.6) and is way behind the pack of 1st year students.
 2. I'm working full-time. Well, I was. Earning $12/hr Monday-Friday. Now they reduced my hours drastically. Most of the colleagues don't like me because I'm quiet and not very sociable. 
 I'm struggling to earn $200/ wk and mum takes $180 off that for board. I'm going no where in terms of savings. Getting a 'dead end' job in a small business and constantly criticised when it's not necessary.
 3. I've got a learning disability, so my intellectual/social levels are awful. I'm not a smart person, just an extremely hard worker.
 4. I use to be so focused on my studies that I had no time for a social life. Now I've got no friends and all the sacrifices I made up until this point has been a waste of time. When I get a slight benefit/advantage, I always screw up.
 5. Because I have no friends I can't socialise. Particularly when I moved to a different suburb and have to rely on technology to keep in touch. My best-friend at the time only gave me 45 seconds on the phone before he had to hang up because of his girlfriend.
 6. I can't talk to anyone. Guys have become acquaintices and girls either stop texting me (because of their BF) or just playing mind games on me. Not once did a friend ask how I was or how was uni etc.
 7. I spend every weekend in the house, all by myself. I had a terrible life. Raised by alcoholic parents and constantly abused when I was at school because of my disability. I've been bullied, a lot in the past 8-9 years and I seem to swallow the pain and play 'the nice guy'. I just don't react and asorb the moment.
 I'm going no where in life. A lot of people could do better then I can. I once had a minor reaction and lost $850 at the local TAB. I've busted my arse 24/7 to try and give myself the best possible situation in life and I ended up putting myself in the worst position of life. 
 Never had a girlfriend, financially broke, no one to talk to, just a ****** up life at the moment. Yet I never seem to react and just keep things bottled up. I have never gone mental in my life. Now I'm worried that it's going to happen :-(. I feel like that I should let go of everything apart from work & uni. Meaning that I have to give my acquaintices the flick. 
 I spend 40 hours a week studying and 45 hours a week working. The rest of the time is filled up with household chores!! I just don't have time to 'become a teenager so to speak'. I took a gamble and it didn't pay off. NOT ONE SINGLE BIT!!!! Now I'm left with nothing and no one, except my alcoholic parents that I have to deal with. I'm 19 and I'm now addicted to porn and masturbating. 
 Thank you :-). I'd really appreciate your help :-).