Hi there,
I've been reading many of your posts and I have the feeling they've helped me a lot.
I still have some questions regarding my own story. Sorry, it's long. Maybe some of you have comments.
 I've been with a man now for about 4 months. We both are over 30. He shows some behaviour which makes me think he suffers from bpd. Also his family story hints towards that direction. He seems to show some awareness, regretting actions or disruptions he'd done when angry, which he's easily. He'd also burnt himself with a cigarette some years ago. However, I didn't dare to bring up the topic of bpd and he didn't say anything.
 At first we lived in two different countries and our relationship started out as an affair. From the beginning he was complaining about the boredom of his daily life and his emptyness. This was hard for me to imagine as I very rarely have that feeling.
For professional reasons I had to move to the same country but a different city. Our short time affair was taking on shape. We started seeing each other on a regular base on his day off. He very soon told me that he needed paper to go visit his home country. He didn't ask me for anything directly, though. I thought that we'd see how our relationship was going. He asked me later whether I had fallen in love with him and I said yes.
 He was so sweet and caring, holding hands all the time, he cooked for me the best food I've ever had and made me meet his friends. I always found returning home very hard. It was as if had left part of my body with him. He said from the very beginning that he loved me. Then, after three meetings (one month) he wanted to talk about our future. I was happy to talk about it because I had a good feeling about us.
Then he started to talk about marriage. I said that for me it was not so important and that it was still very early to think about it. I proposed to go on and see how we'd be doing. (I just wouldn't do that with anyone after having met only four times). Then he said that for him it was very important, culturally and for paper. As he saw that I was reluctant he said that he actually didn't love me because he was in stress. If we got married stress would decrease and there would be a realistic chance that he would fall in love with me. I told him that this was emotional blackmailing and that getting married to him to wait for him to develop feelings (which he'd previously admitted) while I had feelings for him was just too painful for me.
This attempt to manipulate me into marriage was a big shock to me as I had experienced him very sweet before. Then he proposed that we just continue as before.
I couldn't sleep all night. I felt abused by the person I loved. I didn't know any more if what I had felt before was true or if I had made it all up. Also, trust had become difficult. I called him next morning to separate. He didn't really comment, just said ok. After that he was always on skype which he normally never was. It felt as if he was waiting for me to contact him. I did after some days. I asked him whether he wanted to talk. He did and we got back together again.
 Since that he's been wanting to quit the relationship three times. Last time was two days ago. His points were always that I didn't love him enough, otherwise I would rescue him and get married to him. There's no compromise in love as he said. At the same time he was saying that there was no love at all in the world and that he loved nobody and never will. His only love was at the age of 20 and was never fulfilled. He was putting himself down, counting the years he'd left to live and complaining about his daily whisky and cigarette consumption, blaming it rather on his situation than on himself. So in a way he was asking me to get married to him not for love but to do him a favour because he was so miserable.
These episodes alterated with extremely attentive and lovable behaviour. He could just switch from one second to the other. The last time we saw each other it was very special. We went out dancing, going to the beach, it was magic. I could definitely feel it was mutual. After me being back home, he sent me lovely text messages. And I assured the feelings he expressed. I felt so happy. We were supposed to talk in the evening on skype. Then he was crying, saying that it's not good to love. Everybody before had left him, love always causes pain, etc. 
 I'd read in forums about the different phases people go through. So I asked him gently if he was scared about his feelings which he agreed upon. I proposed that he'd have to let go his past, for him to replace his old memories with new happier ones. The conversation ended with him saying that he wanted to learn how to smile more. He had forgotten about it. I was happy that somehow we seemed to have managed to not turn what felt like a depression into a fight. Next day I texted him about whether he'd slept well and I wished him a good day. The answer was only: thanks. Then in the evening he skyped and the whole thing started again. If I'd love him I'd get married to him, etc. I'm supposed to go away for a week. First he wanted to break up, then he proposed I should make up my mind till after my trip and call him if I wanted to get married to him. Otherwise it would be finished.
 This again is emotional blackmail. I don't know anymore what to do. I wanted the relationship to develp solid ground before getting into marriage. Being left every second week doesn't really contribute to that. I told him that love is like a plant which needs water to bloom and that it won't grow if you'd cut its leaves every week. His attitude is always take me or leave me.
 I guess the situation is a mix between the problems resulting from bpd and his personal difficult situation. I almost start questioning myself: maybe he's right and I should just get married to him because I love him. On the other hand I don't like the way he treats me when he wants his will go through. And the after me giving in, would he be happy? Wouldn't there just be something else he'd need me to do to prove my love to him?
 Does anyone have an idea how to get out of this situtation with its repeating pattern?
Many thanks.