I have been experiencing some scary symptoms for several weeks now. I've seen two different doctors, the first one twice a week apart. The first gave me Ativan for managing anxiety. The second has gone along with that original diagnosis and also said that my symptoms could be from allergies, recommending Claritin in the morning and Zantac and Benadryl at night to deal with my sleeping disturbances. In addition, if these didn't work, he gave me Lexapro to deal with anxiety. 
 On to the symptoms: 
 It all started with a feeling of dizziness, almost lightheadedness. It wasn't the kind of dizziness that would make me fall; it was maybe more like disorientation. 
 Anyway, it has progressed. This original symptoms continued when I tried to sleep. I would have a hard time falling asleep and then would wake up several times in the night, sometimes panicked. Also, sometimes as I was falling asleep, I would jerk and wake myself up; I would also be scared because this seemed like something that shouldn't happen. It would take me a long time to get back to sleep when I woke up in the middle of the night. 
 New symptoms include feeling drowsy during the day, like the feeling one gets when just waking up except for a long time. This was sometimes accompanied by some big amounts of yawning. Also, this drowsiness combined with/caused a kind of brain fog, a feeling of detachment from everything around me that made it hard to focus. 
 Sometimes it feels like there's pressure in my sinuses, sometimes in the top of my head; sometimes the pressure is on the left or right side of my head, sort of a headache. 
 Finally, sometimes I shake, sometimes different muscles scattered around my body twitch a little (fasciculations). 
 I must add that there have been days when I have felt almost normal, and some days where I have felt pretty good most of the time. 
 I started taking the Lexapro yesterday, 5 mg a day. Oddly enough, I have started to feel hopeless and emotionally blunted over about that same period of time. 
 This is affecting my ability to do my work properly; I'm 20 years old, living with my parents for the summer. My parents are unmoved by my symptoms and tell me to try to overcome it, but it's hard when I am worried I might have a brain tumor. I haven't wanted to go to work, and I just don't feel like myself.
 Also, I get an extremely tired feeling but unable to sleep due to dizziness. Another bad symptom; I haven't gotten a good night of sleep in a long time.
 Finally, I just have a general feeling of ill health.
 I'm worried that this could be a brain tumor, though everyone around me insists it's just anxiety (mixed with allergies?) I'm scared and I don't feel good at all. What should I do?