I've been trying to get my anxiety and stress under control by not focusing much on it and settling each in parts, but lately it's been getting too much, especially when it comes to my mother, who does nothing but stress me out about her problems, her moodiness, and nags over the most small things, college, and finances.
 I really don't know what to do. The thing is, I had depression since I was 13 and I was getting treated for it, but then my parents decided it was time to move back to Brasil because of the crisis in the US, where I lived. Ever since I got here, things just seemed to get worse, either because I was aging or because time was moving too fast. I'm almost 18 now, and my mind doesn't stop racing with anxiety and stress over college and driving.
 You see, since moving here to Brasil made a bit change I had to make a change in language too, portuguese isn't an easy language at all, atleast not for me. Portuguese has made me crawl back into my shell away from society and silly thing is, if I were in the US, I would have no social problems, in fact, i'd be making friends in a heartbeat, and I wouldn't be shy or ashamed because over-time I learned ways not to be ashamed or shy about a lot of things-- but since i'm in Brasil, it's different.
 My portuguese is very poor and i'm scared of setting off on my own here because there's so much things I don't know that most of the time I feel insecure.
 College I know will be dificult, especially when doing essays and projects all in portuguese and driving is a bit difficult too, but what I find most stressing about it is going up hills, I fear I might go downhill, though I think this was caused after an incident that happened when my mother was driving uphill and had a crazy panic-attack.
 Also, lately my mother is out of work and usually she's the one who brings the money in, and my father works too but doesn't gain all that much. I'm worried about entering college, because college can be expensive, even if it's community (the school system here is so much different, not to mention complicating). I really do want to go to college and get a degree in something, mainly in the biology or social fields, but I still don't know what (another stress i'm trying to settle).
 I know if I want to get "overcome" these fears and "stress attacks" it'd have to be learning Portuguese and learning how to overcome my fears of driving uphill, and choosing a career.. but sometimes I just don't know how to handle this anxiety and stress when it reaches a break point in me, as if it'll happen tomorrow...
 I just have no idea what to do, sad as it may be, I really have no one in my life, no friends and not even family--- and I refuse to talk with my mother, because trust me I have tried, and no matter how many times I say, she doesn't listen, understand, or even try to help in some way, so I always have to deal with all this on my own... my father.. well.. let's just say he's not too bright in "the areas i'm interested."
 So then.. what do I do? I have no idea what to do.