hey everyone,
 my gf and i broke up after about a 4-5 month relationship.  but in this relationship, 2 1/2 months have been absolutely mentally draining.  it came to a point where it would be break up, back together, break up, back together, etc.  finally it all ended.  
 here's the thing though.  when we first got together, she did tell me she used to do drugs in the past, such as X, cocaine, and LOTS of weed....several times a day.  she quit doing those things 3-4 years ago.  now, there are 4 things that she does:  alcohol, weed, smoking ciggs, and vicadine.  however, she told me in the beginning that she rarely takes vicadine, smokes weed about once every 2.5 weeks, drinks alcohol occasionally, and smokes about 1 or 2 ciggs in a span of 4-5 days.  well...when i was finished with my 1st year of med school, i was doing research in forensic psychiatry for the summer and moved down to the same city she was in for the summer.  all things started then.  i noticed that she drank every single day...and im' not talking about 1 or 2 beers...it would be about 5 or 6 beers, couple of shots, or couple of big glasses of gin/tonic drinks.  then, she'd practically smoke weed just about everyday...maybe every other day.  she smoked half a pack of ciggs each day.  and also, she would pop vicadine several times, which i had to find out from her friend, since she swore to me that she would never take vicadine or any narcotics again.
 if we ever had arguments, it would be about the drugs issue...b/c tn started to worry me how much she was consuming.  i'm learning currently in med school how much is too much....and she has definitely surpassed that limit.  so she would get highly defensive about me asking about that saying things like..."just let me be....it's my body...sto' trying to be my mother....i do what i want....stop worrying...i have it under control...."  but these arguments immediately resulted in a break up.   NEVER did we "talk" about or work out our conflicts.  always...ONE argument resulted in a break up.  
 she never wanted to "open up" to me in the past, b/c she was "ashamed of it and didn't want people to feel bad for her"...but one night she really did open up to me.  she did get sexually abused when she was a child by a crackhead guy, and she said she practically knew how to masterbate since the age of 5.  she got physically abused by her step father throughout middle school to high school years.  she finally moved out, and that's when she started doing hard drugs...like X, cocaine, etc.  her entire family was highly involved with crack, cocaine, and drug abuse.  her mother possibly did those drugs while she was pregnant with her as well.  around the age of 7, she had massive surgery of her spine b/c it was completely misaligned...so there was definitely some type of developmental problems.
 we both are lesbians also.  she used to be "straight" up until high school and her first year of college.  since then, she has completely switched to girls.  we intensely fell in love, and she would say things like..."i could see myself with you in your future, you are everything i have ever wanted in someone, etc etc etc."  but she'd be like htat one week....the next week she would be like..."we're too differnet....i don't want to be with you...just go...i'm not going ot follow you...just leave me alone...what don't you understand...i don't want to be with you."  but literally 1 day after that, she would come back to me saying how much she loved me.  she would say negative thigns like that...everytime we get into the arguments about her drug problem.  she was so paranoid all the time that i sit there and "judge" her about her drug problems and just her in general.  she constantly was like...."i'll never be good enough for you...i'll never make you happy....i'm not good in relationships...i'm not good in anything in life..."  she switched her major about 3 or 4 times, constantly saying she wants to or could have been a doctor, a nurse, a translator, a psychologist, etc...but would never stick to anything.  she constantly said to me that i just have high expectations of her and she would never make me happy.  and also as far as jobs, right before going to work, she'd either take a few hits of weed or pop a few vicadine pills.  and drinking has ALWAYS been constant every single night.
 so, one day i sat down and read the entire description of BPD in the DSM-IV-TR, and seriously...to my disbelieve...reading every single line made me think about all the behaviors she does.  i really honestly think she does have this disorder.  i also realize everyone has few characteristics of a lot of personality disorders, but she definitely matches 8 out of 9 criterias for BPD down to the T (the one that she doesn't have is the self-mutiliating behavior like cutting and hurting herself physically...i believe it's criteria #5).  so, i'm not sitting here reading a few websites and a few things and coming up with a conclusion.  both my parents are psychiatrists and my brother is a psychiatrist as well, and i'd like to go into psychiatry as well in the future.  i have done research in forensic psychiatry over the summer.  however, being gay, and my parents not really accepting of it, i couldn't really talk about this with them....b/c they would just dismiss the entire thing and talk about the issue of homosexuality rather than the real problem of the possibility of BPD and definite substance abuse with this girl.  so i'm trying to make an educated guess being a 2nd year medical student as much as possible...but of course, i am also accepting the fact that i could totally be wrong.  
 all i want to know is from some people out there...do these actions sound similar to a BPD person?  right now...her and i are broken up...which i need time to heal...but eventually...i want to try to convince her to go get help...but i have no idea how to bring it up or make her realize or try to find it within herself to get help.  i know she wants to go to a psychiatrist and get help for her problems b/c she has expressed that to me, but hasn't been able to do so b/c she didn't have health insurance.  but finally she has gotten insurance from the school for this year, and i want to try to convince her or help her realize within herself to go get help.  but i just don't know how to let her realize that she may have BPD...which  i know you really can't do to that to certain people.
 if anyone could help me in this situation, i would greatly appreciate it.  bottom line is, i do love this girl, and i really do care for her.  it will take me time to heal b/c we just broke up...but after a few weeks or whatever, i do want to start talking to her again and trying to make her realize that she has two major problems:  1) substance abuse 2) possibly BPD - which i know i really can't tell anyone that they have a "personality" disorder.  
 i truly believe that if she can get some type of therapy or help, she could become better.  but i just need a little bit of direction as to how to address certain issues like this to someone.  i can't stand seeing herself hurting herself like this anymore.  she NEEDS help.
 any help is appreciated.  i hope to hear from someone....
 thank you.
    --vrk320