I'd like to talk more about my Effexor withdrawal. It's been over a month and the physical withdrawal is gone, however the feeling that I thought I had for just a few days is gone as well. I feel horrible. I feel worse than I did before I went on Effexor almost 5 years ago. I have been reading and searching for anything that will make how I'm feeling mentally go away. Bad news is that even people who were at 37.5 to over 300mg which is where I was, go through the same thing. I actually feel dead inside and can't fake being happy or "normal". I am miserable, I feel so much anxiety ALL DAY from the time I wake up. Actually yesterday when I was trying to explain to my husband how messed up I feel I told him waking up is the worse part of my day. I don't eat, I can't think, I'm angered easily, I can't concentrate, I'm having nightmares, I cry all the time, I don't want to be bothered by people, and can't help but think negatively all day. Some called this process that we who are withdrawing from an Effexor Nightmare. My talk therapist told me that the point of withdrawal I'm at is the mental portion and unlike the physical portion which seemed like a breeze compared to this hell lasts a lot longer. I can't do this anymore. I am totally miserable with myself. I don't really know how much more of the Effexor Nightmare I can take. Everyone tells me you'll get through this think positive but when you can't how can you? Had I known that going though withdrawal would be like this I would have NEVER gone on Effexor. I think you truly can't understand what this nightmare is unless you've gone through Effexor Withdrawal. I wonder even if I have any serotonin in my body. Worse part is you can get blood work for levels of serotonin in your blood, but in order to get the proper level reading of where the level is in your brain is when your dead. I see both my  Dr. and Talk Therapist tomorrow. My Dr. will probably try to re-medicate me with something else and my talk therapist will keep telling me to out think my brain and say all the words of comfort I'll need to hear at that point in time. But I don't know how I can fix this. I don't know even if this can be fixed. When this is over who will I be and will I be "normal" again? I always said from day one when I decided I didn't want to be on Effexor and tapered down, what if I don't like who I am... I still worry about that because I HATE who I am now. How much longer has this lasted for some of you and has anyone ever beat it?