American English

American English or United States English is the dialect of English language spoken in the United States of America. It is different in some ways from other types of English, such as British English. Many types of American English came from local dialects in England.

Many people today know about American English even if they live in a country where another sort of English is spoken. This may be because people hear and read American English through the media, for example CNN television, and the Internet, where the most common form of English is American English.

Because people all over the world use American English as well as other types of English, the English language gets new words. Because of this, English has been changing for hundreds of years. For example, the English language spoken in India, which has more than one billion people, keeps adding more American English words to go along with its British English base and many other words from any of the 200+ Indian languages.

Sometimes people learn American English as it is spoken in America. For example, in telephone call centers in India and other places, people often learn American English to sound more like their customers who call from America. These people often keep using American English in everyday life.

The meaning of many words are different in American English. Most changes in a language start with small things. For example, Italian, Spanish, and French all came from Latin.

There are many words that sound the same in both American English and British English, but are spelled differently. For example:

Words of that come from French that end in -re in British English (metre, centre) end in -er in American English. In these cases Canadian usage is to keep the British (and French) spelling.

Books show that many of these differences come from the writings of English-lover Noah Webster, who made the American dictionary following the American War of Independence.

Some more differences in American English:

There are also some words in American English that are a bit different from British English, e.g.: