November

November (Nov.) is the 11th and penultimate (second-last) month of the year in the Gregorian calendar, coming between October and December. It has 30 days. Its name is from the Latin word "novem", which meant "nine". It was the ninth month of the year before January and February were added to the Roman Calendar.

November always begins on the same day of the week as March, and additionally, February in common years. November always ends on the same day of the week as August.

November is the eleventh month of the year in the Gregorian calendar, after October and before December, which is the last month. November has 30 days. It was the ninth month in the old Roman calendar, which is where its name comes from. It kept its name when January and February were added to the beginning of the year, despite becoming the eleventh month. The ninth month is now September.

November begins on the same day of the week as February in common years and March every year. November ends on the same day of the week as August every year, as each others' last days are exactly 13 weeks (91 days) apart.

In common years, November starts on the same day of the week as June of the previous year, and in leap years, September and December of the previous year. In common years, November finishes on the same day of the week as March and June of the previous year, and in leap years, September of the previous year.

In years immediately before common years, November starts on the same day of the week as August of the following year, and in years immediately before leap years, May of the following year. In years immediately before common years, November finishes on the same day of the week as May of the following year, and in years immediately before leap years, February and October of the following year.

In the Northern Hemisphere, November is an Autumn (Fall) month, and the further north in the hemisphere, the more likely it is to get colder as December approaches. In the Southern Hemisphere it is a Spring month. In each hemisphere, it is the seasonal equivalent of May in the other.

Several observances around the beginning of the month are believed to be related, linked to the old Celtic celebration of Samhain on November 1. These events include Halloween (October 31), Day of the Dead in Mexico (October 31 to November 2), All Saints Day (November 1) and All Souls Day (November 2).

In several mainly Christian countries, it is month in which people who died in war are commonly remembered, mainly related to the end of World War I on November 11, 1918. Near the end of the month Advent, the period leading up to Christmas, begins.