Profanity

Profanity is the act of using swear words. The adjective is 'profane'. Profanities can also be called curse ("cuss") words, dirty words, bad words, foul language, obscenity, obscene language, or expletives. It can be called an oath, although this word also has a normal meaning of a "solemn promise". 

Religious profanity is called blasphemy. The verb is to blaspheme and the adjective is 'blasphemous'. Saying “God!” or “Jesus Christ!” as an expression of surprise or annoyance is considered by many people to be blasphemy, mostly because one of the Ten Commandments says not to use God's name "in vain" (without substance or without relevance). Swearing oaths can also be considered wrong by some who follow Jesus' teaching against swearing oaths in the Gospels (such as Matthew 5:34).

A profanity usually refers to religion, sex, or bodily functions. These are things that people feel very strongly about. In some languages, such as French, there is more profanity about religion than most other topics.

A profanity can be a word or gesture or some other form of behaviour.
Different words can be profanity to different people, and what words are thought of as profanity in English can change over time.

Whether a word is a profanity will always depend on the way people think. Some people will be offended by something, while others will not be. Words which should not be used are taboo words. Using such words is thought by some people to be a sin. For example, some Christians, (including Mormons) and some Muslims believe that swearing is a sin.

Some people call profanity "crude," but some say that it is no cruder to say "damn" or "crap" than it is to use "hate" (a word that simply creates a very strong emotion, but not a swear word). People who use profanity do not always mean to make anybody feel bad, and tolerance for different forms of profanity can vary widely, from person to person. Most often, using profanity is a verbal outlet for strong feelings (usually unpleasant ones), that might otherwise cause a physical reaction. At other times, some people may use profanity as humor.

Some people develop a mental condition where they use profanity constantly. This is called coprolalia. Many people think this is called Tourette syndrome. Tourette syndrome is actually a group of symptoms that only includes coprolalia 15% of the time. The condition can be (made worse) by stress.

Several of these words come from Anglo-Saxon or Norse names for body parts, and bodily functions. They came to be thought of as profanity mostly after the Normans brought French and Latin words for them to England. 

Ass (North America) Arse (international) 

A word meaning a donkey and also meaning a person's buttocks. 

Bastard 

An obsolete term for a child who was born to unmarried parents and now a profanity meaning an unpleasant or misbehaved person. 

Bitch 

A female dog. Also used as an offensive term for a disliked woman. 









Twat

A vagina. Also a term for a foolish or incompetent woman or person of any gender.

Wanker

A term for someone who does masturbation. Also a profanity for an unpleasant or foolish person.
These are mostly performed while facing another person, and can be meant toward them, or about them. These gestures are considered as strong as profane words in most cases.





Showing a reversed v sign.

Understood generally to mean "fuck you" or "fuck off".