Police

Police are a group of people whose job it is to enforce laws, help with emergencies, solve crimes and protect property. People who work for the police are called police officers or policemen. They work out of a police station. Police are trained in first aid and rescue, because police officers are often one of the first people to get to a place where people are sick or injured, such as a car accident, or a fire.

The police have different powers to help them do their job. These powers are different in different countries. Most police officers have the power to arrest people, search people, and search houses/properties. They sometimes carry equipment such as guns, batons, tasers, or pepper spray. The area where police officers can use these powers is called their jurisdiction. If officers are outside of their jurisdiction, another police force with jurisdiction can then use their powers.

The police deal with;

Most police departments have officers in two main groups: a "patrol" group with officers who wear uniforms, and a "detective" group with officers who wear normal clothing. 


Not all countries use the same words to describe these groups. In the United Kingdom, for example, patrol officers form the "uniform branch", while detectives work within the CID ("Criminal Investigation Department"). 

Police uniforms, equipment and methods vary depending on the country. In some places, groups of police train for special jobs such as dealing with riots or dealing with highly dangerous criminals. 
Different countries have different names for their police. In Ireland, they are called the "Garda". In Russia, they were called the "Militsiyer" until 2012; now, they are called the "Politsiyer". Other names for police services are sheriff's office, marshal's office or department of public safety. In the same country there can be different types of police officers who have powers in different areas and situations, such as state police, military police and local police. 

Worldwide, police are a small percentage of the number of people they serve. On average there are 303.3 police officers per 100,000 people. 

In many countries, police officers carry guns during their normal duties. In other countries, like the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and the Republic of Ireland, most police officers do not carry guns.

Officers communicate using radio devices. The radios can be on both the uniform and in the patrol vehicle.