Japanese language

Japanese (日本語) "Nihon-go" in Japanese) is the language spoken in Japan, in East Asia. Japanese is an isolated language. One theory says Japanese and Korean are related, but this is seen as obsolete. Other theories about the origin are the Austronesian languages or a connection to Dravidian languages. Interestingly, a different term is used for Japanese as a course of study by citizens: it is "kokugo" (国語), which means national language. Nonetheless, Japanese is still referred to as 日本語 by the Japanese.

Japanese uses three separate writing systems: hiragana, katakana, and kanji. The first two are phonetic systems (writing that shows the pronunciation of Japanese words), and kanji is the Japanese variation of Chinese characters (which show the meaning of Japanese words). The three systems are used interchangeably, and all three systems can often be found in the same sentence. The three systems are each reserved for different purposes.

In English, the order of the words is very important. For example, the sentences "Is it?" and "It is." mean different things. In Japanese a lot of these differences are made by adding or changing the endings of words. So a Japanese word has a stem called a "body", and additional parts (called suffixes). By changing the suffix you can change the meaning of the word.

Japanese has five vowel sounds that can have two different lengths. They are "a, i, u, e, o; "in IPA they are transliterated as /a/, /i/, /ɯ/, /e/, /o/; and they are pronounced in English as "ah, ee, oo, eh, oh". Lengthening a vowel can change the meaning of the word: "ojisan" (おじさん, uncle) and "ojiisan" (おじいさん, grandfather). Japanese has a sound which is like the English "L" sound, but it is also like the English "R" sound. (That is why it can be difficult for many Japanese to learn to make both "L" and "R" sounds when they speak English.) Japanese has a sound which is not common in English which is usually written "Tsu" (つ). This sound appears in "tsunami" (つなみ), the Japanese word for large ocean waves caused by earthquakes or extreme weather.

When foreigners speak Japanese, it is important they know how formal they must be when speaking to people you may or may not know. In Japan, it could be considered quite impolite if you are not formal enough.

In Japanese, the sentence follows the subject-object-verb (SOV) order, meaning the verb is at the end of the sentence, and the subject is at the beginning. In many sentences there is no subject. The listener can guess what the subject is by thinking about the context and the form of the verb.

In Japanese, Japan is called "Nihon" (日本), and the Japanese language is called "Nihongo" (日本語) (-go means "language"). Sometimes, the words "Nippon" and "Nippongo" are also used, but today these words are thought of as more nationalist, while "Nihon" is a more neutral word. The kanji characters of the word mean "sun-origin." This is because Japan is at the eastern edge of Asia, and to observers in China, the sun rose from the direction of Japan. For this reason Japan is called "The Land of Rising Sun."

Japanese is an agglutinative language, especially in the verb system. In agglutinative languages a word has a short "body" and prefixes or suffixes are added to change or to redefine the meaning. Making new words in Japanese is very easy.

Japanese words come from three main sources. The first source is "wago" (和語), which are native Japanese words and can also be called "yamato kotoba" (大和言葉). The second is "kango" (漢語), which are Chinese loanwords. The third is "gairaigo" (外来語), which are loanwords borrowed from languages other than Chinese (usually English since the post-WWII era).