Atmosphere of Earth

Earth's atmosphere is the layer of gases around the Earth. The atmosphere is held in place by Earth's gravity. It is made up of nitrogen (78.1%) and oxygen (20.9%), with small amounts of argon (0.9%), carbon dioxide (~ 0.035%), water vapor, and other gases. The atmosphere protects life on Earth by absorbing (taking) ultraviolet rays from the sun. It makes our days cooler and our nights warmer.

Solid particulates, including ash, dust, volcanic ash, etc. are small parts of atmosphere. They are important in making clouds and fog.
The atmosphere does not end at a specific place. The higher above the Earth something is, the thinner the atmosphere around it is. There is no clear border between the atmosphere and outer space. 75% of the atmosphere is within of the Earth's surface.

Originally, the Earth's atmosphere had almost no free oxygen. It gradually changed to what it is today, over a very long time (see Great Oxygenation Event). The process began with cyanobacteria. They were the first organisms to make free oxygen by photosynthesis. Most organisms today need oxygen for their metabolism; only a few can use other sources for respiration.

Some parts of the atmosphere are hot or cold, depending on height. If something climbed straight up, it would get colder, but then it would get hotter as the object climbed higher. These changes of temperature are divided into layers. These are like layers of an onion. The difference between the layers is the way the temperature changes.

These are the layers of the atmosphere, starting from the ground:

Where one layer changes to the next have been named "-pauses." So the tropopause is where the troposphere ends ( high). The stratopause is at the end of the stratosphere. The mesopause is at the end of the mesosphere. 
These are called boundaries.

The average temperature of the atmosphere at the surface of Earth is .

The atmosphere has pressure. This is because even though air is a gas, it has weight. The average atmospheric pressure at sea level is about .

The density of air at sea level is about 1.2 kilograms per cubic meter. This density becomes less at higher altitudes at the same rate that pressure becomes less. The total mass of the atmosphere is about 5.1 × 10 kg, which is only a very small part of the Earth's total mass.