God paradox

The God paradox is an idea in philosophy. This idea is explained here:

This is a paradox because:

If either outcome were considered true, then it is argued that God Almighty is actually not Almighty.
The God paradox is a good example of a philosophical problem. This section has some answers to this paradox.

One answer is that God could make it so he can't lift the mountain by his own choice. In other words, God can lift the unliftable mountain because he is all powerful, but he chooses not to be able to, and so he chooses to cut his own power, because he is able. God can also choose to not be able to create such a mountain. God is all powerful, so he can choose not to have the power to make an unliftable mountain. Simply said, God can cut his own power, but in so doing, he can still regain that power. It is a limbo, a state between not powerful and powerful, something that is not definable by our knowledge of what is possible or impossible. Because God is allmighty, he surpasses our definitions of what he can and cannot do.

This answer says God is able to do only things less than God. If you say there exists a mountain that is "more heavy than anybody is able to lift," then what you say is funny: it means nothing, because God is able to lift any mountain. This is because saying a mountain is "too heavy to lift" means this mountain cannot be lifted by anybody. This does not mean that God is too weak to lift very heavy mountains. God cannot lift an "unliftable" mountain because that would not make sense. He also cannot create an "unliftable" mountain because that also would not make sense, if God can lift everything. God could still lift any mountain that is not defined as "cannot be lifted." For example, God can make a mountain as heavy as he wants, but he cannot make a round square.

Some people think, "Yes, God is able to do things that make Him not able." They think God is able to do things that are funny to think, "Because", they say, "there is nothing God is not able to do." (See Gospel of Matthew 19:26)

God is beyond limitation. His strength is infinite. If He chooses to create a mountain that is too heavy for Him to lift he would simultaneously become strong enough to lift it (which actually means he's not omnipotent, because if he can gradually become stronger, then he can't be all powerful). To ask if the creation of such a mountain is possible is to attempt putting a limitation on the limitless.

In logic, problems can often be solved by breaking them into smaller pieces. One solves each of the small problems.

Let us see how one can use this for the God Paradox. The paradox is:
If one changes this question to a sentence, it becomes:
We can make this even more simple. First we must see that because God can do anything: 
Now we can write the sentence as these facts:
Facts 1, 2 and 3 must always be true. Now we must see if fact 4 is true or false:

At the end of the Book of Job, God 'answered Job out of the whirlwind' and asks him:
'Who is this that darkens council by words without knowledge?..where were you when I laid the foundations of the Earth?' (Job chapter 38, 1-4)
In other words, God's powers are beyond human understanding, as human reason itself is part of God's creation in the Book of Genesis.

These references may not be simple to understand.