Iron Man

Iron Man is a superhero who wears a suit of armor. His alter ego is Tony Stark. He was created by Marvel Comics and appears in their comic books. He is also in five of the movies in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, including "Iron Man", "Iron Man 2", "The Avengers", "Iron Man 3", "" and has also appeared in " and" "Avengers: Infinity War and "

In the movies and the earlier comic books, Tony Stark is just a human. Outside the suit, he does not have any superpowers. He made the suit himself, and nobody else can usually control it. Iron Man can fly and shoot beams from his hands using special technology called "repulsors" in his boots and gloves. He is not hurt by most weapons like guns and cannons. There are many versions of the Iron Man suit, because Stark keeps making improvements.

In the later comic books, Stark took an experimental virus called "STD" which allowed him to control his suit with his mind and summon it wherever he was. Stark would eventually develop an armor that he could store in his body. This armor was known as the "Bleeding Edge Model 37".

Stark inherited a large American company called "Stark Industries" when his father died. He was badly injured by a bomb in an attack planned by people who did not like him running his company. Shrapnel from the explosion was moving towards his heart. This would have killed him, but a scientist called Yinsen who was with him made a magnet for his chest which would keep the shrapnel away. In the movies, he makes an "arc reactor" which is put into his chest to stop the shrapnel. 

Yinsen and Stark secretly build a heavy suit of armor which they plan to use to escape. However, during the escape, Yinsen dies so that the kidnappers will be distracted from Stark escaping. Stark escapes safely and goes back to America. He makes a better suit and uses it to fight evil.

Tony Stark is usually shown as a playboy. This means that he has sex with a lot of women. He is also very proud, and often very selfish. Sometimes he makes very bad decisions, either because he does not think enough about what he is going to do, or because he does not realize how his actions will affect others. For example, in the comics, he does a lot of things that he regrets during the Civil War. Stark is also an alcoholic. He is often drunk. He did not have a good childhood, and this affects how he acts. 

Stark is very smart, and a very talented inventor. His technology is always very advanced, and Iron Man is his greatest piece of work. In both the comics and the movies, he uses the arc reactor (or "repulsor technology") as a form of sustainable energy to help the world.

Stark has very few close friends. Two of them are Pepper Potts, his personal assistant who becomes his girlfriend, and James Rhodes, an American soldier who operates the War Machine armor. In the comics, he is very close to Steve Rogers, who is the first Captain America.

Iron Man is in the game Clash of Clans and Clash Royale as the P.E.K.K.A troop.