Exponent

An exponent tells you how many times a number (known as the base) is multiplied by itself

For example: if you see formula_1, 5 is the base and 7 is the exponent. Therefore, in this example, 5 is multiplied by itself 7 times e.g. formula_2. 

The exponent in formula_3 is 3. This can also be written as formula_4

Bases raised to the second power or formula_5 are known as squared values

Bases raised to the third power or formula_6 are known as cubed values

Exponents are used in algebra. Exponentiation is a way of shortening the process/equation of repeatedly multiplying a number by itself. 

An exponent is a number or symbol, placed above and to the right of the expression to which it applies, that indicates the number of times the expression is used as a factor.The exponent "x" in formula_7 indicates formula_8 multiplied by itself "x" times.

There are some basic rules used in exponentiation

1. Product Rule:

Proof - When you are multiplying a base term by two different exponents formula_10 there are "m" number of "a'"s and "n" number of "a"'s 

by definition, when dealing with exponents you are dealing with repeated multiplication of a base term so 

therefore formula_12

Example: formula_13 : This is true because at first we had 2 threes times 4 threes which, when multiplied together gives us 3 multiplied by itself 6 times or 4+2 times. 

2. Quotient Rule:

Proof (when m > n) - formula_15

now group corresponding a’s

corresponding a’s become 1 and we are left with

therefore, formula_18

Example: formula_19 notice formula_20 therefore the proof holds true

this holds true for when m < n as well but when that happens you get negative exponents. When m < n the format of the problem becomes formula_21 

See section below for more information on negative exponents

3. Zero Rule:

Proof: we showed in #1 that formula_23

this holds true for formula_24 as well so, 

if this statement is true where formula_26 

then formula_24 must equal one,

A negative exponent is the reciprocal of a number with a positive exponent which can be mathematically represented as formula_29 In the same way that regular exponents are considered repeated multiplication, negative exponents can be considered repeated division. 

Negative exponents can also be different from -1. In this case the negative exponent can be separated from the positive exponent, so formula_30

The formula for a negative exponent in terms of a whole number exponent is formula_31 There are more than one ways to prove this. The first proof involves a pattern form. It is not always a good idea to use patterns because in cases like exponents they may not be complete patterns for every case, but the proof still holds. 

Proof #1: Why is formula_32 ?

divide both sides by formula_36

The second proof proves exactly the same thing but dives further into matching equalities 

Proof #2: formula_39

everything in the next row is proved by the rules in the exponent section

therefore formula_44

If we also have a multiplication, like in formula_45, it would be written as formula_46

A complex number can also be taken to the power of another complex number. The relationship between imaginary numbers and trigonometry, which produces the multiplication formula

This formula basically states that the multiplication of complex numbers is related to addition of angles.

There are some relationships between functions and “infinite degree polynomials”, that are called series representations of the functions. The important series representations that we will focus on are:

From these representations, you should notice that the terms of the sine and cosine series combine, along with some sign changes, to make the exponential series. By introducing the number i into the equation, we get

This result is often used as the beginning of the definition for complex number exponents.

There are some cases where we are raising other numbers to the power i. For example, we can use the following relationship formula_52. Here using base 2 and exponent i, we get

When using base i and exponent i, we get

Now we can look at a general formula.

We can rewrite the formula_56 in the trigonometric form formula_57.

By the relationship we found between trigonometry and complex exponent, we can rewrite the equation in complex exponential form, formula_58.

Substituting this equation in the exponent in our original equation, we get formula_59

This can be simplified to be formula_60

The real and imaginary parts of the exponent can be simplified separately to obtain to result formula_61

Because there are many ways to describe the angle P, this formula can give many answers. If we allow the variable P to vary by multiples of formula_62, we get the final result