Donald Sutherland

Donald McNichol Sutherland OC (born July 17, 1935) is a Canadian actor. He has appeared in more than 100 movie and television shows. 

Sutherland is known for his roles in "Fellini's Casanova", "Klute", "Don't Look Now", "Invasion of the Body Snatchers", "JFK", "Ordinary People", "Pride & Prejudice," and "The Hunger Games". He is the father of actor Kiefer Sutherland.

Sutherland was born in Saint John, New Brunswick. His ancestry includes Scottish, as well as German and English. When Sutherland was a child, he had rheumatic fever, hepatitis and poliomyelitis. He studied at Victoria College and at University of Toronto. He studied acting London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. Sutherland started off working as a radio DJ at the age of 14.

Sutherland's career began in 1962 with a small role in the television series "The Avengers". He then starred in some major roles in movies such as "Dr. Terror's House of Horrors" with Christopher Lee. He had a recurring role in the 1970 television series "M*A*S*H". 

Sutherland soon gained fame in the Academy Award-winning movie "Klute" with Jane Fonda. He then starred in the movie "Don't Look Now". He then starred in the movie "Buffy the Vampire Slayer".

Recently, Sutherland portrayed President Snow in the movie adaptation of "The Hunger Games", released in March 2012. He reprised the role in its sequel, "" (2013).

Sutherland was married to Lois Hardwick from 1959 until they divorced in 1966. Then he was married to Shirley Douglas from 1966 until they divorced in 1970. Since 1972, Sutherland has been married to his current wife Francine Racette. He has five children, three of whom are actors.

Sutherland became a blogger for the American news website "The Huffington Post" during the 2008 United States presidential election campaign. In his blogs, he openly stated his support for Barack Obama.

During the Opening Ceremony of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver he narrated the events. He was also one of the Olympic flag bearers.