Nickelodeon

Nickelodeon is a worldwide cable television network. airing Sundays-Wednesdays & Fridays from 7 a.m.-9 p.m., Thursdays from 7 a.m.-8 p.m., and Saturdays from 7 a.m.-10 p.m. It is made for children. The network was started in 1977 as Pinwheel. During the late mornings and afternoons, Nickelodeon shows Nick Play Date. This is a group of learning programs and series for younger children. They are shown while the older children are in school. At night, the network shows Nick at Nite. Nick at Nite is a group of reruns of older series that parents watched when they were younger.

"Rugrats" is the series which has been shown for the longest time on Nickelodeon. The series has been shown for thirteen years. It was the most popular show on the network until they started showing "SpongeBob SquarePants". "Rugrats" has led to two spin-offs, "All Grown Up!" and "Suzy and Angelica's Preschool Daze".

The network makes a magazine called "Nickelodeon Magazine", which was last released on December 2009. It also has events and special programs every year, for example, the Kids Choice Awards.

In April 2003, Nickelodeon began using its famous splat design as its main logo in the United States. After this, all other Nickelodeon international channels began using it as its main logo and the other morphing logos were used on small occasions. The UK was the last to rebrand to this, in September 2005.

In February 2009, Viacom announced that Nickelodeon would switch from its bubble writing-like capital letter text to a simple lowercase text. The United States rebranded to this look in September that year. Central and Eastern Europe were the last to rebrand to this design, in July 2011. Nickelodeon Arabia did not get a chance to rebrand, as it was shut down in October that year.

Nick Jr. is the channel for preschool children. It is an abbreviation of "Nickelodeon Junior". It was launched in 1988 in the United States.

Nick 2 (formerly Nick Too) is a commercial-free time shift service of Nickelodeon. It began on July 1, 1989. It is owned by MTV Networks, a division of Viacom. This channel shows what was on the channels Nickelodeon, Nick Jr. and Nick at Nite three hours earlier than the normal feed of the channel. It is not available Time Warner Cable and Cablevision.

Nick Radio is a radio network that launched on September 30, 2013, in a partnership between the network and iHeartMedia (then called Clear Channel Communications), which distributes the network mainly via its iHeartRadio web platform and mobile app; its programming is also streamed via the Nick.com website and on New York City radio station WHTZ as a secondary HD channel. Nick Radio focuses on Top 40 and pop music (geared towards the network's target audience of children and adolescents, with radio edits of some songs incorporated due to inappropriate content), along with celebrity interview features. In addition to regular on-air DJs, Nick Radio also occasionally features guest DJ stints by popular artists as well as stars from Nickelodeon's original series.