Bali

Bali is an island and a province in Indonesia. The province includes the island of Bali and a few other islands. The island is known as an island of a thousand temples. There are about 3,100,000 people in Bali. Bali's most important city is Denpasar. Hinduism is Bali's largest religion. More than 90% of its people are Hindus. Textiles and garments are 45% of their exports. The currency in Bali is the Indonesian rupiah (IDR). Bali's food mainly consists of rice and mostly spicy foods. Tourists often enjoy a local specialty called babi guling (roast pig). Bali has many fruits, such as pineapples, mangos, passionfruits, bananas, coconuts, rambutans, selaks, durians, mangosteens and different kinds of oranges and grapefruits. Bali is also known for its folk music which is played on a group of instruments called a gamelan. The literacy rate for Bali is 45.55%.

Bali is a popular place for tourists. They have lots of historic temples. Bali is known for its great views and its beautiful beaches and volcanoes. Bali has cool days between April and October and hot days from November to March. 
Bali had a major terrorist bombing on October 12, 2002 killing more than 200 people. The attacks were at a local nightclub in the tourist town of Kuta.

Bali is famous for its many lovely rice fields, beaches, and mountains. Hindu ceremonies, shadow puppet shows, and traditional dance are also very popular. Half of the tourists only visit Kuta, but many tourists visit other towns such as Ubud, Padang Bai and Amed.

Bali is a volcanic island. The two main volcanos are Mount Agung and Mount Batur. Mount Agung is sacred to the Balinese people.

Mount Agung is an active volcano, with a large and deep crater that occasionally emits smoke and ash. The last major eruptions occurred in November 2017.

A number of tourists are in prison in Bali. Australians Schapelle Corby and a group known as the Bali Nine are serving long terms in Kerobokan Prison and several of the Nine have been sentenced to death.