Caffeine

Caffeine is a drug (or chemical) found in plants. It can be harmful for both humans and animals if a large amount is consumed. If a person ate 10-13 grams of caffeine quickly, between 80-100 cups of coffee, it would kill them.

Caffeine is the main drug that is in coffee. Coffee comes from a tree. The seeds of the tree are roasted to make coffee.

Caffeine comes from other plants as well. It is in guarana, yerba maté, cacao, and some plants used to make tea. The plants use caffeine as a "pesticide". This is a chemical that kills insects if they eat the plant. It is the way the plant protects itself.

It is called guaranine when it comes from the guarana plant and theine when it comes from a tea plant. It is called mateine in the mate drink. This drink is an infusion made with Yerba mate.

Caffeine is a "stimulant" drug. A stimulant is a drug that increases body actions like heart rate, blood pressure, and metabolism. It makes a person more awake and alert.

Caffeine also is a diuretic. This means it makes a person make more urine (the waste liquid a person makes).

The caffeine chemical is called a "xanthine alkaloid". This is a group of chemicals that are stimulants. Some xanthine alkaloids (like theophylline) are used to help asthma.

The biggest use of caffeine is as a stimulant. People drink coffee and other drinks with caffeine to stay awake.

Doctors sometimes use caffeine as a medicine. It is used for headaches (head pain). It is sometimes used to help premature (born "very" early) babies to breathe. The short-term risk of this treatment seems to be that the babies treated gain less weight than usual.

Caffeine is sometimes given to people after a lumbar puncture. This is a test to see if someone has meningitis."

In the beginning caffeine was found to relieve hunger, so it was used for weight loss. That did not last because people were using too much. Caffeine can be a very dangerous drug when not used in the right way.

Caffeine also has medicinal properties. It is used in many over the counter medicines, such as Excedrin, Midol and Anacin. When combined with other analgesics, caffeine can help to alleviate headaches and cramps.

The largest problem with caffeine is addiction. This is when people get bad symptoms when they do not have the drug. When people have "withdrawal" (feel bad because they do not have the drug) they drink more. This makes them feel better. But if they cannot get more, they are likely to feel some of the symptoms listed below:

Caffeine can also hurt people if they drink a lot at once. If someone takes too much of a drug at once it is called an "overdose". Caffeine overdose is a medical diagnosis. It is called:"Caffeine-Induced Organic Mental Disorder" or "Caffeine Intoxication". People with this can have these symptoms:

250–300 mg of caffeine a day is a "moderate" amount. That is as much caffeine that is in three cups of coffee (8oz each cup). More than 750–1000 mg a day is a significant amount, but is very unlikely to kill someone. The Lethal Dose 50 of caffeine is 192 mg per kilogram, in rats. In humans, it is between 150 and 200 mg per kilogram (70-90 per pound.) 

Caffeine is in many drinks and foods. This is "approximate" amounts of caffeine in some food and drink:


One ounce – abbreviated oz - is 30ml.

A 'cup' is 8 oz (240ml.)