Eminem

Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972) better known by his stage name Eminem (written as EMINƎM) and also as Slim Shady, is an American rapper, record producer, and actor. Eminem released his eighth studio album "The Marshall Mathers LP 2" on November 5, 2013 and is a sequel to "The Marshall Mathers LP". Eminem is currently signed to Aftermath Entertainment, Shady Records, and Interscope Records.

Eminem started rapping for a group in his hometown of Detroit called Soul Intent in 1992. In 1996, he released his debut album which was called "Infinite", released by Web Entertainment. It did not sell that many copies. In 1999, he released his world-renowned album "The Slim Shady LP" after he was signed to Aftermath Entertainment and Interscope records. A year later, he released his third album "The Marshall Mathers LP."

His fourth album, "The Eminem Show", was released in 2002. It also got critical and commerical success. "Encore" was released in 2004 and sold well depsite being seen as a step down in quality. Eminem then went on hiatus for a few years while dealing with personal issues. He returned in 2009 with the album "Relapse".

His seventh album "Recovery" came out in 2010 and received huge commercial success. His eighth album is "The Marshall Mathers LP 2" from 2013.

Eminem is often called the 'Best Rapper Alive' and was named the 'King Of Hip-Hop' in 2011. He is the best-selling hip hop artist of all time and one of the best-selling music artists of all time, having sold over 195 million records worldwide.

Eminem starred in a movie called "8 Mile", which is semi-autobiographical (a movie about himself but not fully). He wrote the song "Lose Yourself" for the movie. The song won the Academy Award for Best Original Song.

Eminem has one biological daughter named Hailie Jade Scott Mathers by ex-wife Kimberly Anne Scott Mathers. Kimberly and Eminem married in 1999. After debuting the 2000 hit, Kim, they separated the following year. He has adopted two of his nieces as daughters. He is the legal guardian of his half-brother, Nathan.

Eminem has written and sung over 250 songs famous ones include Lose Yourself, Rap God, Not Afraid, Love The Way You Lie

Eminem has released 8 studio albums: