Sushi

Sushi is made with specially prepared rice. The rice is mixed with vinegar, salt, and sugar. Sushi also contains raw or cooked seafood, and sometimes vegetables as well. Sometimes sushi is wrapped in a sheet of seaweed called "nori".

There are many different kinds of sushi. The most common sushi in Japan is "nigirizushi": fish that is placed on top of a small portion of sushi rice. Sometimes you may find other ingredients on top of rice, such as egg instead of fish. "Makizushi" consists of rice rolled around fish and/or vegetables. In America, "makizushi" is more popular than "nigirizushi". Another type is known as "temaki" or a hand roll. This kind of sushi comes in a cone-shape, created by the "nori" wrapped around the ingredients inside. They are usually filled with a mixture of rice, fish, and vegetables.

Sushi can be eaten with hands or chopsticks. Soy sauce and wasabi are commonly eaten with sushi. "Gari" (sweet, pickled ginger) can often be found alongside a plate of sushi and also a little bit of wasabi, used as a palate cleanser.

In Japan, sushi is sometimes sold in "conveyor-belt shops" called "kaiten zushi", where plates of sushi are put on a moving belt that passes by the customers. People freely take the sushi they want as it passes. The color of the plate shows the price of the sushi. This way of serving sushi is becoming more popular in other countries as well. 

As with most foods, eating sushi has some health risks. However, most can be minimized with proper preparation. Some large fish, such as tuna (especially bluefin), can contain high levels of mercury. Tuna can cause mercury poisoning when consumed in very large quantities over time. Parasite infection by raw fish is not common in the modern world (less than 40 cases per year in the U.S.). Infections can generally be avoided by boiling, burning, preserving in salt or vinegar, or freezing to a certain temperature. Although "nigirizushi" will almost always appear in a raw form, often much of the fish has been previously frozen to specific temperatures to prevent parasites.

The kinds of the sushi vary according to each country.