Romeo and Juliet

Romeo and Juliet is a play written by William Shakespeare. It is set in Italy and is about the love between two young people from noble families that are enemies. "Romeo and Juliet" has always been one of Shakespeare's most popular plays. It has been adapted to opera, ballet, television productions, and movies. 


The noble families of the Montagues and the Capulets live in the city of Verona. They had an argument, and were enemies. Their servants were enemies as well. The young men who work for the Montagues and the Capulets get into gangs and fight each other in the street. Because it is fashionable to carry a sword, sometimes they get badly injured. 

Verona is ruled by Prince Escalus. He tells the Montagues and the Capulets that they have to stop fighting or they will be punished. It is very difficult to control the young men. Montague has only one child, a teenage boy called Romeo. Capulet also has only one child, a beautiful 14-year-old daughter called Juliet. They do not know each other, because Juliet never goes anywhere without her nursemaid. Romeo and his friends go to a masked ball at the home of Juliet's parents. Romeo and Juliet meet at a party and fall in love. 

Because they think they will get into trouble with their parents, they tried to hide their love by not talking about it at home. Juliet knows that her parents wanted her to marry a cousin of the prince. Romeo and Juliet get married in secret. Because of their secret marriage, a lot of things happen which bring about many deaths, including, finally, Romeo and Juliet kill themselves.

Because this play was written in the 1500, the English language that it uses is not exactly like the English that is used today. Some of the play is written in poetry. Uttamkumar.in are written. 


"Romeo and Juliet", like many of Shakespeare's plays, is written in several different forms. 




Of all the scenes that have ever been written in plays, one of the most famous is in "Romeo and Juliet". 

After Romeo and Juliet have met at a party and fallen in love, Juliet goes up to bed. But she cannot sleep so she stands at her window and pretends she is talking with Romeo. 

Romeo climbs up onto the balcony. Juliet tells Romeo that her love for him is as deep and endless as the sea. They part from each other with the famous words:

This romantic scene has been acted and copied many times, sometimes seriously and sometimes for fun. One well-known scene that took its idea from this, is from "West Side Story", a musical by Leonard Bernstein, which takes place on a fire-escape landing with the lovers, Tony and Maria, singing the lovesong, "Tonight".

Romeo and Juliet has been performed on stage many times. There have also been forty different movies