Social Distortion

Social Distortion is a punk/alternative musical group. It was startd in Los Angeles, California in 1978 by singer/guitarist Mike Ness. Ness is the leader and only permanent member.

Social Distortion has released seven studio albums. Their two first albums were not very successful. When they signed to Epic Records in 1989, their third album became a mainstream success. It had the singles "Let It Be Me", "Ball and Chain", "Ring of Fire", "Sick Boys" and "Story of My Life". These were all on the United States charts. It was the band's first album to appear on the top 200 on the "Billboard" music chart in the United States. Their next album, 1992's "Somewhere Between Heaven and Hell", was also successful. It had the band's biggest hit, "Bad Luck". That song peaked at number 2 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart, the highest initial charting single for the group. "White Light, White Heat, White Trash" was released four years later. That was their fifth and last major label album. It peaked at #27 on the "Billboard" 200, the band's highest chart position yet. It had their only "Billboard" Hot 100 single "I Was Wrong".

After the release of "White Light, White Heat, White Trash", Social Distortion went on an extended hiatus. During that time, Ness went solo. On February 29, 2000, their longtime guitarist Dennis Danell died from a brain anyuerism at the age of 38. After his death, Social Distortion considered disbanding. They decided to continue with a new guitarist, Jonny "2 Bags" Wickersham. He stayed with the band permanently. From 2001 to 2004, the band had been touring semi-frequently, playing sold-out shows in the Los Angeles, California area and other cities. They released their sixth album in the fall of 2004. The resulting album, "Sex, Love and Rock 'n' Roll", was another success. It was their second album to peak in the top 40 of the "Billboard" 200, at number 31. Its lead single, "Reach for the Sky", became one of Social Distortion's biggest hits in the fall of 2004.

As of 2009, Social Distortion was still together. They released a new album, "Hard Times and Nursery Rhymes", in January 2011. It peaked at #4 on the U.S. Billboard.



Their full-length albums include:


They have also released two compilation albums: