Learning English

Learning English is what people do when they want to learn how to speak and understand the English language. People learning English often learn to read and write English at the same time.

A lot of people learn English at school, where English is a common subject. Many people also want to spend their own personal time to learn English. Some of these people may not know any English, where others will have learned some English in school, and will want to advance their knowledge of it.

There are two ways to learn English outside of school:


Many people join for spoken English institutes in Hyderabad or spoken English Class in Bhilai any other lessons like school lessons but at learning centres where any people can go, no matter their age. In such a centre they will join a class fitting their existing level of learning of English, so that they will be in a group for the teacher to help them learn.

An example of this type of learning is at the classes by the British Council. Here is their website.

Other people try to learn English on their own, or in a less formal setting than in a group of people with a teacher.

People might meet with others who are trying to learn English, in order to practice their standard of English when speaking.

People can also listen to radio broadcasts in English, or watch television programmes in English to help them improve their listening ability. A popular channel to listen to the radio on is broadcast by the BBC, called the BBC World Service.

People can also study English by reading books, or listening to English courses on recorded CDs or cassettes.

The BBC World Service has a free website for people who are learning English as a second or foreign language called BBC Learning English.
There are many online community forums such as Englishforums, where many people meet to learn English. Questions are answered quickly even with help from volunteer teachers from all over the whole world. You can also learn English on YouTube with free channels like English with Jennifer, Fast English or EngVid. visit our solapur website www.askenglishspeak.com 

There are various English learning softwareavailable that help learners improve their English speaking capabilities. Learners can practice on these software according to their convenience of time and place.