Muscle

Muscle is a tissue in animal bodies. Their main purpose is to help us to move our body parts. They are one of the major systems of human and animal bodies. 
There are three kinds of muscles:

Muscle action can be classified as being either "voluntary" or "involuntary".

The skeletal muscles move the limbs (arms and legs). They move the jaw up and down so that food can be chewed. Skeletal muscles are the only "voluntary" muscles. This means they are the only muscle that you can choose to move.

The cardiac muscle is the muscle in the heart. When this muscle contracts (makes itself smaller) it pushes blood through the circulatory system. The cardiac muscle is "not" voluntary. Animals do not choose for their heart to contract.

The smooth muscles are the other muscles in the body that are involuntary. Smooth muscles are in many places. They are in:

Muscles are made of many muscle cells. The cells contract together to make the muscle get shorter. The muscle cells know to do this together because many of them get information sent to them by nerves. The cells that get the message from nerves tell other cells that are near them. They tell the other cells by sending an electrical current.

Muscle cells are filled with proteins called actin and myosin. These are the proteins that make the muscle contract (get shorter.)

When a nerve tells a muscle to contract, the muscle opens holes in its cell membrane. These holes are proteins that are called "calcium channels". The calcium ions rush into the cell. Calcium also comes out of a special place in the cell called the "sarcoplasmic reticulum". This calcium sticks to the specialized proteins actin and myosin. This triggers these proteins to contract the muscle.

Contraction also needs ATP. This is the energy that your cells use. It is made from using glucose in the cell. It takes a lot of energy to release contracted muscles. They use most of the energy for building muscles.

Exercise makes muscles get bigger (see hypertrophy). Exercise also makes muscles stronger. If a person does not exercise, their muscles become smaller and weaker. This is called muscle atrophy.

There are many different kinds of muscle diseases. There are three big groups of diseases: