Intersexuality

Intersex variations occur (though rarely) in species which use sexual reproduction. Intersex people are born with sex characteristics that lie between those of typical males and typical females. Older terms include the word hermaphrodite, but this term is now only used for animals which have both natural male and female organs. The clinical term 'disorders of sex development' (DSDs) is very controversial.

An individual's genitalia may be atypical in some way. It can be difficult to determine if an intersex baby is genetically male or female (with XY chromosomes or XX chromosomes). They may also have male and/or female secondary sex characteristics (such as body shape). However, there is a wide range of variation in sexual anatomy. There are many more subtle forms of sex anatomy, or sex chromosome differences. These don't even show physically. Some won't show up until later in life. Sometimes, the variation may appear when the baby reaches puberty or becomes an adult.

Up to 1.7% of people may be born with an intersex variation. A child born with genitalia atypical enough to call in an expert occurs in about 1 of 1,500 births. More information on the frequency of different causes is available.

Most causes of intersex are congenital. That means people are born with it, usually because of a genetic condition. All development is governed by genes which regulate the process of growth.

The most common intersex variation is a hormone condition. This causes genetically female fetuses to have a more maasculine body appearance, because the babies' adrenal gland produces higher levels of androgen hormones (hormones that act like testosterone). This may cause the female baby to appear male even to doctors and parents.

Surgery may be used on intersex babies to give a more usual cosmetic appearance. This is sometimes thought to make children more normal, but this idea lacks evidence and is contested. Early cosmetic medical interventions can lead to problems in later life, including decreased sexual function and sensation. The children concerned cannot consent to those surgeries, and their parents may not understand the full implications. There is no medical consensus about surgical interventions, including their type, timing, necessity and conduct.

Civil society organizations and human rights experts have called for an end to medical interventions on intersex children that are carried out for social reasons. United Nations and other human rights experts regard these medical treatments as harmful. 

In 2011, Christiane Völling became the first intersex person known to win a legal case taken because of non-consensual surgical intervention. In April 2015, Malta became the first country to end medical interventions to modify the sex anatomy of intersex children.

Several countries protect intersex people from discrimination, including South Africa, Australia, and Malta.