North Carolina

North Carolina is one of the fifty states in the United States. The capital of North Carolina is Raleigh and the biggest city in the state is Charlotte. North Carolina is split up into 100 counties and these counties are split up into many cities and towns.

North Carolina was one of the original thirteen colonies and was where the first English colony in America lived. As of July 1, 2014, there are about 10,146,788 people living in the state.

North Carolina is connected to South Carolina on the south, Georgia on the southwest, Tennessee on the west, Virginia on the north, and the Atlantic Ocean on the east. There are three main sections in North Carolina: the coastal plain, the piedmont, and the mountains. The coastal plain is the eastern part of the state, the piedmont is the middle, and the mountains are the western part of the state. North Carolina also has some islands that are called The Outer Banks. They are in the ocean to the east of the state.

North Carolina has many different kinds of weather in different parts of the state throughout the year.

The eastern part of the state is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, and usually has comfortable temperatures all year long with the summer average high temperature usually not above 90 °F in the summer and not under 40 °F in the winter. However, it can get as hot as the low 100s °F and as cold as 20 °F. Most years there is less than one inch of snow and some years pass with no snow at all. The coastal plain usually gets a tropical storm every 3 or 4 years.

The average temperature generally does not go above 90 °F in most areas of the Piedmont in summer, however it go over 100 °F when there is a heat wave. Short lived episodes of sleet and freezing rain are common in this part of North Carolina, but the mountain ranges protect the Piedmont from most severe winter weather. Snow in this region rarely lasts more than 48 hours before completely melting. Weak tornadoes are often reported in the Piedmont, but only 140 people have died due to tornadoes from 1950-2012 across the entire state.

The average temperature almost never goes above 80 °F in the summer and is usually in the high 30’s or low 40’s in the winter in the mountain region of North Carolina. About 14 to 20 inches of snow fall each year with some of the higher elevations getting 50 inches each winter. The wettest part of the mountains gets 90 inches of rain.

Before being settled by the English, about 30 Native American groups lived across North Carolina. In 1584, Sir Walter Raleigh began two colonies in what is now known as North Carolina, but they did not last long. One of these, the Roanoke Colony later became known as the "Lost Colony" and remains as one of the great unsolved mysteries of early American history to this day. Virginia Dare, the first English child born in the New World, was born in the Roanoke Colony.

The first permanent settlers in North Carolina came from the state of Virginia in 1655 because there was not enough farmland in Virginia. Later the land was devided into present day North Carolina and South Carolina. The name Carolina comes from the Latin for Charles ("Carolus") after King Charles I.

North Carolina was an important state during the American Revolutionary War.

In 1860, North Carolina was a slave state. About 1/3 of the people in the state were slaves. North Carolina fought as part of the Confederacy during the Civil War, although it was the last of the states to leave the Union. The state sent about 125,000 troops to fight in the war and about 40,000 of them died. Even during the war some people in North Carolina did not support the Confederacy, mostly because the Confederacy believed in slavery. The first Confederate soldier to be killed was from North Carolina.

Farms in North Carolina produce various things including grapes, peanuts, Christmas trees, poultry and eggs, wheat, corn, cucumbers, apples, greens, tobacco, hogs, milk, cattle, sweet potatoes, and soybeans. North Carolina grows more tobacco then any other state in the country. Furniture making is an important industry in North Carolina, but over the past few years many jobs have moved to other countries like China and India.

Charlotte, the biggest city in North Carolina, is the second biggest banking center in the United States, making banking very important in North Carolina. BB&T and Bank of America have their main offices in the state.

Technology is also important in North Carolina. There are many companies that make computer software and video games in the state. Winston-Salem is the home to a hub for innovation in biomedical and material sciences and information technology called the Wake Forest Innovation Quarter. Research Triangle Park near the state capital of Raleigh is one of the largest research parks in the world. 

North Carolina has four hospitals that are nationally ranked with many NICUs at a IV rating (highest possible rating in the United States). Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center is reported by the U.S. News & World Report as one of the top hospitals in the nation. Brenner Children's Hospital and Health Services is designated a Nurse Magnet facility and it was rated in 2014 as one of America's best children's hospitals.

North Carolina has more state maintained roads than any other American state. The biggest roads are:

There are many major and international airports in North Carolina. These are: