Blink-182

Blink-182 is a popular pop-punk band formed in 1992. The original band name was blink. They later had to add on the "182" suffix due to an Irish techno band who had the same name that had been around longer and threatened to sue the band. Although the change, fans still refer the band as just "Blink". Tom DeLonge, who played guitar, had been friends with Ann Hoppus while living in San Diego. He had often complained about wanting to start a band. Ann then introduced Tom to her younger brother, Mark Hoppus, who played bass. They later found drummer Scott Raynor to complete the trio. In 1998, midway through a North American tour, Raynor left the band to continue his education. Raynor was also rumoured as having been forced to leave the band by its remaining members, due to his drinking problem. Travis Barker, who had been drumming for The Aquabats at the time, filled in for Blink 182 on the drums to finish out the rest of the tour. Tom and Mark were so impressed that they had Barker become the bands full-time drummer. Blink-182 can be known for their catchy pop-punk songs and toilet Humor (their live album especially, which contained a song consisting entirely of swear words). In February 2005, the band announced that they were going on an "indefinite hiatus". They stated that they were going to take a break for a while. However now all three members have confirmed that they have no plans of getting back together in the future, due to DeLonge going on to create the band Angels & Airwaves and Hoppus and Barker to create the band +44.

During the 2009 Grammy Awards, the members of Blink-182 said that the band would be getting back together.

In 2016, the band joined up with Matt Skiba from Alkaline Trio to fill Tom 's place in the band. With the band being a trio again, they came out with a new album California.

Demos:

Albums Released:
They have also made a "Greatest Hits" album in 2005. That album contained two songs that had not been released in the United States before, "Not Now" and "Another Girl Another Planet". "Another Girl Another Planet" was a cover song; it was first sung by The Only Ones.