Seventh-day Adventist Church

The Seventh-day Adventist Church is a Protestant Christian group. It is different from other Protestant groups because the followers believe that Saturday is the day we should worship God. The Bible calls this day the "Sabbath". The Sabbath is the seventh day of the week (Gen 2:1-3) in Judaism and in the Seventh-Day Adventist Church. Saturday is the sixth day of the week in the major Christian denominations. That is why they are called "Seventh-day Adventists". Although the abbreviation "SDA" is commonly used, "Adventist" is the church's preferred shortening of "Seventh-day Adventist".

The Seventh-day Adventist Church came from the Millerite movement in the United States. This included people from many denominations. The Millerites started in the middle part of the 19th century. The Millerites were people who followed the teachings of William Miller. Miller preached that Jesus is coming very soon, in the Second Coming or Second Advent. The church name "Adventist" came from the word "Advent." The Seventh-Day Adventist Church started in 1863.

Much of the theology of the Seventh-day Adventist church is the same as evangelical teachings such as the Trinity and Biblical inerrancy. Teachings that are different include the unconscious state of the dead (which means that when people die, they do not wake back up until Judgment Day) and the doctrine of an investigative judgment. The Bible says so in Ecclesiastes 12:7.

The church is also known because it thinks a healthy diet is very important they believe that they should not eat unclean foods like pig, certain fish, and animals that the Bible names as unclean. They practice healthy eating, vegetarianism (not eating meat), and staying away from things they think are immoral such as smoking, drinking or doing anything to harm what they consider the Temple Of God or their bodies.It also promotes religious liberty. When it comes to culture, it is more conservative. All of this is written in the Adventist Health message.

Among the founders of the Church was Ellen G. White. She wrote many texts that are still thought to be very important in the church today. She was a dedicated Christian who believed she got visions from God about the end of the world and what heaven will be like.

The world church is governed by a General Conference. Smaller regions are administered by divisions, union conferences and local conferences. It is present in over 200 countries and territories and is ethnically and culturally diverse. The church runs many schools, hospitals and publishing houses worldwide, as well as a prominent humanitarian aid organization known as the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA). There are about 18.5 million people in the Seventh-day adventist church worldwide.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church is organized with a representative form of church government and the world-wide Church has 13 Divisions.

The Seventh-day Adventist World Church Statistics shows a growing church with 15,660,347 members as of December 31, 2007.

The Adventist News Network reported in June 2010 (during the 59th quinquennial General Conference Session of the Seventh-day Adventist Church held in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.) that Seventh-day Adventists reached a membership of 16,300,000, according to the church's Office of Archives and Statistics. The world church Secretary stated that when counting unbaptized children and family members who attend services, the church numbers between 25 and 30 million.

Seventh-day Adventists believe in Protestantism.

Seventh-day Adventist believe in the 28 Fundamental Beliefs. This statement of beliefs was adopted by the General Conference in 1980, with an extra belief (number 11) being added in 2005.