Animal Farm

Animal Farm is a short political fable by George Orwell. It is based on Joseph Stalin's betrayal of the Russian Revolution. Orwell wrote it because he wished to destroy what he called the "Soviet myth". Like "Nineteen Eighty-Four", the story is one of the most famous political allegories in the world. It is about a group of animals who rebel against the humans who run the farm they live on and run it themselves with hopes of being equal, free, and happy. In the end, however, the new rule becomes a cruel tyranny of its own led by the pigs. It was written during World War II and published in 1945. Although rejected by several publishers, when published it became a best-seller. Today it is widely accepted as a classic.

"Time" magazine chose the book as one of the 100 best English-language novels (1923 to 2005). it also featured at number 31 on the Modern Library List of Best 20th-Century Novels. It won a Retrospective Hugo Award in 1996, and is included in the Great Books of the Western World selection.

The animals of the Manor Farm lived badly. Their farmer Mr. Jones, a mean and drunken man, exploited them. One day Old Major, the pig who led the animals, called a meeting of all the animals. Old Major told them about a dream he had the previous night. He had dreamed about an old song called, 'Beasts of England', which started a resistance against the human beings. When Old Major sang the song most other animals started to join in. Everyone was very excited about rebelling. 

Old Major died a few days later and two young pigs, Snowball and Napoleon, started leading the preparations for the Rebellion. About three months later they revolted against Mr. Jones and they took over the farm. The purpose of the revolution was to create a fair society made only by animals, or animalism and it was based on seven commandments such as “Four legs good, two legs bad” and most importantly: "All animals are equal". They also changed the name of the farm to "Animal Farm" from Manor Farm. 

Snowball, an inventive and vivacious pig, and Napoleon, a big and cruel-looking pig, started to fight for leadership. In the meantime Mr. Jones was planning to attack to get the farm back but when he did the animals won the battle called "The Battle of the Cowshed". Mr. Jones was forced to stay out of the farm. One day, when Snowball announced his plans to build a windmill, Napoleon arrived in the farm with nine big, cruel dogs that made Snowball run away bleeding. From that day Napoleon was the real dictator of the farm; he sent his dogs to eat up any animal that didn't agree with him. If something went wrong (like when the windmill they'd worked so hard on was wrecked), Napoleon blamed it on Snowball. According to Napoleon, Snowball was sneaking around Animal Farm ruining everything. 

When Boxer, the strongest horse in the farm, lost his strength because of old age and fell while he was building a windmill, Napoleon sent him to be slaughtered. Now Napoleon had no pity on anybody. He and the pigs were like Mr. Jones - they exploited the other animals, and they took advantage of the foolishness of some animals. They came into contact with human beings for business although they had said it was forbidden. In the end they became like human beings, they started to walk on their hind legs and they replaced the old maxim with a new one: “Four legs good, two legs better”. Nothing was changed and resistance seemed to be useless.

 George Orwell who was a socialist, wrote the introduction of the 1947 Ukrainian translation of "Animal Farm". There he said he got the idea from seeing a young boy whipping a large cart horse. He explained, "It struck me that if only such animals became aware of (knew) their strength we should have no power over them, and that men exploit (badly use) animals in much the same way as the rich exploit the proletariat (the poor, the lower class)".

There are many characters in the book who are based on real people. They are grouped into pigs, horses, humans and other animals. 





Animalism is a system of beliefs shared by the farm animals of Manor Farm. The purpose is to ensure the farm animals behave like actual animals and not follow the footsteps of humans beings. Therefore, any human behavior is considered contrary to the spirit of Animalism.

In the story, this song was sung by animals of England once upon a time.
It is named "Beasts of England". It has a stirring tune, a cross between "Clementine" and "La Cucaracha". This song became popular among the animals of England after Old Major recited it to the farm animals of Manor Farm. It is the first national anthem of Animal Farm.

These are the original commandments laid down by the pigs.

""Four legs good, two legs bad.""
which later changed to " Four legs good, two legs better." "All animals are equal" which later changed to
""All Animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others.""