Jainism

Jainism is a South Asian religion that teaches non-violence towards all living beings. Jain philosophy is the oldest philosophy of India that distinguishes body(matter) from the soul (consciousness) completely. It rests on the principle of Nonviolence (ahimsa) and Non-possessiveness (non-attachment to possessions). It teaches that the universe is eternal and that every living being has a soul which has the power to become God. A soul which has won over its inner enemies like attachment, greed, pride, etc. is called "jina" which means conqueror or victor. Such great souls are considered God. Self-control is considered the means to obtain liberation or Godhood.

Jainism teaches that 24 great souls called tirthankaras (Teaching gods) are born from time to time to revive Jaina faith. In present age it begin with first "tirthankara" Rishabhadeva with Parshva (9th century BC) and Mahavira (6th century BC) being the 23rd and 24th tirthankara respectively. In the modern world, it is a small but influential religious group with about 4.2 million followers in India,
and growing immigrant communities in North America, Western Europe, the Far East, Australia and elsewhere.

Jains have sustained this ancient religion to this era and have significantly influenced and contributed to ethical, political and economic spheres in India. Jains have an ancient tradition of scholarship and have the highest degree of literacy in India; Jain libraries are the oldest in the country. Tamil Jains and Tulu Jains have lived in parts of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka since th 1st century BC. Even though South Indian Jains are distinguishable in some of their routines and practices from North Indian Jains, the core philosophies and belief systems are the same for both cultures.


According to Jain philosophy, a soul in its pure form is God.
The following are three posts that any soul can attain-

Tīrthaṅkara is a human being who has win over the cycle of birth and death. Tirthankaras shows the path to liberation to other living beings. After their death they become Siddha i.e. soul at its purest form.
Following are the 24 tirthankaras of present time cycle-

According to Jainism, universe has no beginning or end. The Jain wheel of time is divided into two parts, Utsarpinī or ascending time cycle and Avasarpinī, the descending time cycle, occurring continuously after each other.
Jains believe that their religion is eternal, having no origin and end.

"Suṣama-suṣamā (read as Sukhma-sukhma)"

"Suṣamā (read as Sukhma)"

"Suṣama-duḥṣamā (read as Sukhma-dukhma)"

"Duḥṣama-suṣamā (read as Dukhma-sukhma)"

"Duḥṣama (read as Dukhma)"

"Duḥṣama - duḥṣama (read as Dukhma-dukhma)"
This trend will start reversing with the start of "utsarpiṇī kāl".