Veganism

Veganism is a philosophy that says people should not use animals. There are vegans who choose not to eat animals, and vegans who choose not to use them in any other way either.

Vegans avoid food that comes from animals, including meat, eggs and dairy products (like milk, cheese, and yogurt). A vegan diet is sometimes called a strict vegetarian diet. Some vegans also do not eat honey. Many vegans try not to use any other animal products, such as leather, wool, feathers, bone, or pearl. They also try to avoid products that have been tested on animals. They may believe in animal rights, and may campaign for it.

Vegans eat fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, nuts, and seeds, and things made from them like vegan sweets, vegan cheese and vegan cakes.

Some people become vegan because they disagree with the treatment of animals in the modern animal farm industry. Other reasons to become vegan are for health, religious reasons, to protect the environment, or because of world hunger. Animals eat a lot and take up a lot of resources. By not producing meat, milk, or eggs, a lot of food, land (as of 2006, 30% of the earth's land mass is used raising animals for food) and water can be saved. For instance, it takes about 16 pounds of grain to make 1 pound of grain-fed meat, so eating plants directly takes fewer resources.

Some vegans only eat foods that have not been cooked. Their diet is called raw veganism. 

Another more restrictive type of veganism is fruitarianism. Fruitarians only eat foods that can be harvested without harming or killing a plant.

Vegans must make sure their intake of vitamin B is adequate, since it does not occur reliably in plant foods. Vitamin B deficiency can have serious consequences such as anemia and neurodegenerative disease. Vegan societies recommend that vegans either eat foods fortified with B or take a B supplement. Tempeh, seaweed, spirulina, organic produce, soil, and intestinal bacteria have not been shown to be reliable sources of B for the dietary needs of vegans. Vitamin D deficiency is possible in the absence of dairy products (which are normally fortified with vitamin D). It can be prevented by supplements, and time spent outdoors.

Many people think that it is not healthy to be vegan. However, a vegan diet can have all of the nutrients needed for health. It is just more difficult to get the nutrients because there are less foods to choose from.