Tyrannosaurus

Tyrannosaurus was a large predatory dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous, 67 to 65.5 million years ago. 

"Tyrannosaurus" was a bipedal carnivore with a massive skull balanced by a long, heavy tail. Compared to the large and powerful hind limbs, its forelimbs were small, but powerful for their size. They had two clawed digits.

There is discussion as to whether it was a hunter or a scavenger. Like most dominant meat-eaters of today, such as lions and hyenas, "Tyrannosaurus" might have been both. It had a very strong jaw, and its bite power could snap the bones of other dinosaurs. 

More than 30 specimens of "Tyrannosaurus rex" have been found. Some of them are nearly complete skeletons, and soft tissue and proteins have been reported in at least one of these specimens. Research is done on its biology, life history and biomechanics. The feeding habits, physiology and potential speed of "Tyrannosaurus rex" are some topics. Some scientists think "Tarbosaurus bataar" from Asia is a second species of "Tyrannosaurus", but others think "Tarbosaurus" is a separate genus.

The estimated size of this dinosaur has changed many times. Packard and colleagues tested dinosaur mass calculations on elephants. They decided that dinosaur estimations are flawed and produce results which were too high. Thus, the weight of "Tyrannosaurus" could be much less than usually estimated. 

Although other theropods rivalled or exceeded "Tyrannosaurus rex" in size, it was the largest known tyrannosaurid and one of the largest known land predators. It was up to in length, up to tall at the hips, and up to in weight. By far the largest carnivore in its environment, "Tyrannosaurus rex" was a top predator, probably preying on hadrosaurs and ceratopsians, and/or a scavenger. The debate over "Tyrannosaurus" as apex predator or scavenger is among the longest running in paleontology.

For a long time, "Tyrannosaurus" was the largest known "carnivorous" dinosaur. Recently, skeletons of other, slightly larger, carnivores have been found, such as "Giganotosaurus", "Spinosaurus", and "Carcharodontosaurus". Skeletons of "Tyrannosaurus" were found on the North American continent, but relatives, such as "Tarbosaurus", have been found in Asia.

The largest known "Tyrannosaurus rex" skulls measure up to in length. Large openings ('fenestrae') in the skull reduced weight and gave places for muscle attachment, as in all carnivorous theropods. But in other respects "Tyrannosaurus"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s skull was significantly different from those of large non-tyrannosaurid theropods. It was extremely wide at the rear but had a narrow snout. This permitted good binocular vision. The skull bones were massive. Some bones were fused, preventing movement between them; but many were pneumatized, with a "honeycomb" of tiny air spaces. This may have made the bones more flexible as well as lighter. These features are part of the tyrannosaurid trend towards an increasingly powerful bite. Its bite easily surpassed that of all non-tyrannosaurids. 

The tip of the upper jaw was U-shaped (most non-tyrannosauroid carnivores had V-shaped upper jaws), which increased the amount of tissue and bone a tyrannosaur could rip out with one bite, although it also increased the stresses on the front teeth.

The earliest "Tyrannosaurus" skeletons were found in 1902 by Barnum Brown. Henry Fairfield Osborn, president of the American Museum of Natural History, named the species "Tyrannosaurus rex" (meaning "tyrant lizard king") in 1905. The most complete skeleton was found in 1990 in South Dakota and named "Sue" after its finder, Susan Hendrickson.

"Tyrannosaurus" has become well known. Many movies and television shows have featured it, such as Jurassic Park. Its skeletons are popular exhibits in many museums. 

"Tyrannosaurus" became extinct in the Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event, which wiped out half of all species on Earth.

Jane is a fossil specimen of a small tyrannosaurid. It is either "Nanotyrannus" or a juvenile "Tyrannosaurus". The skeleton was found in the Hell Creek Formation in southern Montana in 2001.

After four years of preparation, Jane went on display at Rockford, Illinois in the Burpee Museum of Natural History. Some paleontologists think Jane was a juvenile about 11 years old at its time of death. Its fully restored skeleton measured 6.5 metres (21.5 ft) long, about half as long as the largest known complete "T. rex" specimen, which measures 13 m (42.6 ft) long. The weight of the specimen in life was probably nearly 680 kg (1,500 lbs). Its large feet and long legs indicate it was built for speed and could possibly run as fast as 20–30 miles per hour. Its lower jaw has 17 curved, serrated teeth.

Despite having a typically female name, Jane's sex is unknown—the specimen was named after Burpee Museum benefactor Jane Solem.

The Jane specimen has been central to the debate regarding the validity of the proposed tyrannosaurid genus "Nanotyrannus". Jane's skull is almost identical to the skull of the original "Nanotyrannus" specimen, confirming that they belong to the same species. A conference was held at the Burpee museum in 2005, during which paleontologists debated whether these "pygmy tyrants" represented adult specimens of a small species, or juvenile specimens of "Tyrannosaurus rex". While there were a few dissenters, most paleontologists at the conference decided on the latter, that both Jane and "Nanotyrannus" were juvenile "T. rex". However, the Jane material has yet to be properly studied and described by scientists. This research is currently being done, by Robert Bakker and colleagues Peter Larson, and Phil Currie.