Samer Kamal

Samer Kamal is a Jordanian athlete. He won the bronze medal in Taekwondo (a form of martial arts) in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. He was the first Jordanian athlete to get a medal for Jordan in the Olympics in Seoul. This gave many Jordanians pride in this achievement durings the 1980s. 

Samer Kamal holds 9th Dan Chung Do Kawan and 8th Dan Kukkiwon Black Belt in Taekwondo since 2012, a 1st Class international referee since 1997 and an international trainer since 1990. He was given the Independence Badge of Honor (4th Degree) by His Majesty the late King Hussein Ben Talal in 1988 and was chosen seventh best Jordanian athlete for the century in 1999.

Samer pursued his undergraduate higher education in Business Administration and Philosophy from the University of Jordan. He then received a graduate degree in Management Science from Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen, Scotland.

Samer began his sports career as a marketing manager at a Jordanian based sports marketing company. He took the experience he gained there to Qatar where he became a general manager. He was responsible for the starting a sports marketing company with the purpose of promoting sports in Jordan and the region. Soon after, Samer decided to start his own sports marketing company “SportUpJordan” to promote local athletes. Within a year, he was able to get sponsors for champion Jordanian athletes. He started the largest and only bilingual online sports business. He made an attractive product that was acquired by Maktoob Inc., an Arabic internet service provider.

His sports experience let him expand internationally. Samer was named the director of business development at Right To Play in Canada, that uses sport programs to help children who live in poverty and disadvantage communities to play sports and games. He helped raise funds to the organization.

Staying active in Taekwondo, Samer opened Champions Taekwondo Center in the year 1990, his first Taekwondo school in Jordan. 

The year 2012 was the year Samer has gotten his 8th Dan Black Belt in Taekwondo. 2012 also marked the opening of Champions Martial Arts Taekwondo Center in Mississauga, Canada. A year after, a 3 branch was announced open also in Erindale, Mississauga, Canada.

With all his experiences, discipline, leadership and practice, today Samer has help developed Taekwondo and martial arts in the world and has promoted more than 2000 black belt students worldwide.  

Other than at work, Samer is active in many sports communities. In 2009, he was named an executive board member of the World Olympians Association (WOA). In November 2011, Samer become president of Asian Olympians Association (AOA).

Samer Kamal competed in the following International Taekwondo Championships: