Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones

Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones is an American movie produced by Lucasfilm and 20th Century Fox. This is the fifth movie that George Lucas made in the "Star Wars" series. It shows the reasons why Anakin Skywalker eventually became Darth Vader.

It has been 10 years after the events of the blockade of Naboo and the Senate is deciding to build an army for the Republic as there aren't enough Jedi's to protect the Galaxy and several planets chose to leave the Republic and join the Separtist. As a Bounty Hunter is hired to kill Senator Padme Amidala and Obi-Wan Kenobi and his padawan Anakin Skywalker and after some investigation Obi-Wan Kenobi discovers the creation of a clone army on a planet Kamino in the name of a Jedi killed a decade ago! 


Senator Padmé Amidala is nearly killed by an unknown assassin, and Supreme Chancellor Palpatine assigns two Jedi knights - Obi-Wan Kenobi and his apprentice Anakin Skywalker - to protect her. Anakin falls in love with Senator Padmé, and a war is started by the Separatists, who are led by the evil Count Dooku. Meanwhile, Obi-Wan Kenobi discovers the army of clone troopers made in the Planet Kamino, which, according to the makers, was ordered by a Jedi Master who was killed ten years back. While chasing the bounty hunter Jango Fett (whose DNA was used to make the clone army), Obi-Wan was captured by the Separatists in Geonosis and was sent off to be executed.
Anakin, meanwhile, was in his home planet of Tatooine, after dreaming of his mother. He tried to rescue his mother but was too late. He later began to hate the Sand People who took his and killed his mother.

Padmé comforted him, and later asked him to save Obi-Wan in Geonosis. They too were sentenced to be executed but other Jedi knights came to save them. Master Yoda later arrived, bringing the Clone Troopers along to help the Jedi. But Anakin and Obi-Wan had to fight Count Dooku after they suffered injuries. Yoda comes to their rescue, but Count Dooku gets away.

Meanwhile, in the capital, Coruscant, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine gains more power because of the war.