RollerCoaster Tycoon

RollerCoaster Tycoon (or RCT) is a series of computer games where the user can make their own theme park. Each game in the series allows players to construct their own theme parks in an objective-based level. Players can also build their own roller coasters.

The first game was made by three people: designer and programmer Chris Sawyer, artist Simon Foster and composer Alistar Brimble. It was published by Hasbro Interactive.

The game was very popular. It was released for the PC.

These are the games which have been released:

This is the original game, for the PC. It was released in 1999 There is a long list of scenarios (levels) which the user can complete. Users can also download famous theme parks from the internet. A large amount of rides and shops are included with the game.

Also named 'Corkscrew Follies'. It was released in 1999 This game includes many more levels and some more rides and shops are added. The original game MUST be installed to be able to play this one.

This addon also includes the "Added Attractions Pack". It was released in 2000 for the PC. It includes three famous theme parks: Blackpool Pleasure Beach, Alton Towers and Heide Park. It adds many more levels and rides to the game.

The 2002 sequel to RCT was made because of the success of the first game. It had the same interface but it added a few new features:
The game also added support for buildings to be made using walls to make ride entrances. It included famous Six Flags theme parks and their rides.

There are two expansion packs released for RCT2. These are:


RCT3 is the first game in the series to use full 3D graphics. It was released in 2004. Players can ride their rides and rollercoasters for the first time. Night and day is a new feature. Firework displays can now be made to custom music.

RCT3 now has a sandbox mode. This is where the user can build a park with all items available and unlimited money. It is a good way to build parks in practise for the 'Career Mode'. There are many Scenarios packaged with the game. Each one can be completed on three difficulty levels. More are added with the expansion packs. This game adds the ability to make your own Peep groups to wander around your park.

This is the first expansion pack to be released for RCT3. It was released in 2005. The User can build water parks with different types of waterslides. He or she can also build swimming pools. A few water-themes attractions have been added as well as new shops. The number of scenarios available is doubled with this expansion pack. It also adds some new music to the game. This Expansion Pack came with the Hershey's Stormrunner and the Rollersoaker. Both based on coasters based on real coaster designs at Hershey Park somewhere in the U.S.A.

The Fireworks mode has been upgraded to a Laser and Water display feature as well. The user can now make longer shows to their music.

This expansion pack was released in 2005. The users can now add animals to their park. A new set of animal-themed rides have been added, like the 'Insect House' and 'Elephant Ride'. The game has new music and new scenery. Also some new shops have been added. There are a lot of scenarios added as well as some jungle themed music. This expansion pack came with the Extended Coaster which is basically a dream coaster. It has the most inversion parts and also the ability to make beyond vertical drops like on SAW the ride at Thorpe Park.