Digest/6December2004

< 29 November-5 December 2004 • • 14-25 December 2004 >

Articles dated 6 to 13 December 2004 are included in the compilation below. Their status in the current proposed review policy at time of compilation is noted next to each date of articles of some length, with articles only in development being listed at bottom.

Veteran sergeant accounts US torture coverup
8 December 2004 | Detailed Talk Section

David DeBatto reports US Sergeant Frank Ford was immediately stripped of his weapon and assigned a 24-hour escort. Shortly after he was told to report to an army psychiatrist for a "combat stress evaluation". The psychiatrist deemed Ford to be "completely normal".

Criminal charges filed in Nov. 19 NBA brawl

8 December 2004 | Under Review

PONTIAC, Michigan – After spending weeks going over written statements, TV video and even fan shot video, Oakland County Prosecutor David Gorcyca announced criminal charges against five Indiana Pacer players and seven fans stemming from the November 19th brawl at The Palace Of Auburn Hills.

Calvin Murphy acquitted of molestation charges

6 December 2004 | Community reviewed

Former Houston Rockets star Calvin Murphy, accused of molestation by five of daughters, was found not guilty by the jury, putting an end to the eight-month long trial.

E.C. President does not advise Portuguese referendum in light of current crisis

6 December 2004 | Community reviewed

LISBON – The President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, said holding a referendum on acceding to the European Constitution in Portugal is inadvisable, in light of the current political crisis in that country.

Lycos Europe ends its anti-spam campaign

6 December 2004 | Under review

EUROPE – Lycos Europe has ended its anti-spam operation: "Make Love Not Spam." A company spokesperson said the objective of the time-limited campaign was to raise people's awareness. The reasons why it ended the campaign was variously reported and speculated in media. The operation, while fairly popular, suffered unexpected troubles and drew criticism from security experts and others from the start.

Rumsfeld to remain in Bush administration

6 December 2004 | Under review

WASHINGTON, DC – Donald Rumsfeld revealed today that he will not resign his position as United States secretary of Defense. Several other members of President George W. Bush's cabinet have resigned. Rumsfeld stated he will continue at his post until at least the end of the Iraq war, although he did not commit to remaining for the full four years of the administration. While also not committing to any dates for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq, Rumsfeld indicated his desire that they be withdrawn sometime within the next four years.

Vanuatu PM accused of assaulting envoy

6 December 2004 | Community reviewed

PORT VILA, Vanuatu – Serge Vohor, the Prime Minister of Vanuatu, recently came into spotlight as the newest battleground in the diplomatic war between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, was accused of pushing the ambassador from the People's Republic of China, Mr. Bao Shusheng.