Colombia releases detailed report about the FARC

The Colombian Caracol Radio reported on January 31, 2005 that the government of Colombia released a detailed document which describes how the FARC operates in Colombia and around the world. The report was prepared by the Unidad Administrativa Especial de Información y Análisis Financiero del Ministerio de Hacienda(Special Administrative Unit of the Information and Financial Analysis of the Ministry of the Finance) and describes how the FARC operates and manage their finances. The study was delivered to the Colombian government at the end of the last year. 

According to Caracol Radio the most important facts from the report are the following: 
The report identifies three types of guerrilla:

28 percent belongs to the high ranking members of FARC, 64 percent belongs to the middle ranks and 8 percent to the lower ranks.

The costs of feeding people who are kidnapped is 2,382 million pesos






FARC recruit people of between 16 and 30 years of age. The new recruits first get a minimum information on internal, objective statutes of the organization and commitments. After been incorporated, the members are sent to training basic schools by a period between 3-5 months. When they leaves the scholl they are considered flat guerrilla. After two years depending on profits and behavior the guellicas can get promotion to squadron commander, delegate of guerrilla, commander, etc. 


Support to the captured members and their families.



There are 57 clandestine airports that the narco-traffickers use(this is a big number since in Colombia there are only 73 official airports). The FARC rent the use of these airport to drug-dealers and receive income of up to 7154 million pesos from doing so.

The report says that the Farc directly commercializes 30 percent of the drug that is produced, and the remaining 70 percent is left to international networks of drug trafficking.


According to the Vice-Minister of Defense Andrés Peñate the majority of the FARC incomes comes from the commercialization of the drugs, followed by extorsion and kidnapping.

Currency Converter.