AFC Asian Cup: Thailand defeat Oman, Qatar draw with Vietnam

Qatar have drawn with co-host Vietnam 1-1 in their 2007 AFC Asian Cup Group B match, played in front of a capacity 40,000 spectators at the My Dinh National Stadium, Hanoi.

Vietnam started strongly, although failed to create any meaningful opportunities on the Qatar goal. However, their first real chance resulted in a goal after thirty-two minutes. Vietnam striker Phan Thanh Bình sent the ball towards goal from 25 yards, and the Qatar goalkeeper Mohamed Saqr had the ball slip through his hands and trickle over the line.

The score was 1-0 at half time. After the break, Qatar had most of the chances to score. Magid Mohamed hit the post with a curling shot in the sixty-second minute, and the ball was cleared away after a goal-line scramble.

Qatar then equalized on seventy-nine minutes. Striker Sebastián Quintana got his head onto the end of a deflected shot by teammate Magid, after beating Thai goalkeeper Duong Hong Son to the ball.

The Qatar team ahd a chance to take the lead after eighty-four minutes, when Quintana played a through-ball past the defence into the feet of Ali Hassan Afeef. Afeef, one-on-one with goalkeeper Hong Son, lifted his ball over the Vietnamese 'keeper only to see it hit the crossbar and land back in the field of play. Vietnam cleared the ball away and averted the danger.

The game ended 1-1, and leaves Vietnam on top of the group with four points having played two Group B games. United Arab Emirates play Japan this afternoon (UTC) in their Group B fixture.

In Group A, co-host Thailand national football team defeated Oman 2-0 at the Rajamangala National Stadium, Bangkok.

Substitute Pipat Thonkanya scored both goals, eight minutes apart, both from set-ups by fellow Thailand substitute Teeratep Winothai.

The first goal, in the seventieth minute, was a low volley from six yards out. Winothai crossed the ball low and fast from the right-hand wing, and Thonkanya was on the end of the cross to shoot it home.

Thonkanya scored again in the seventy-eighth minute, after Winothai lofted a header into his path from midfield. Running with the ball, he took one touch on his chest and then half-volleyed the ball home from the edge of the penalty area. 

Thailand currently sit atop Group A on four points, with Australia to play Iraq this afternoon (UTC).