2007/08 DFB Cup: FC Bayern Munich beats Burghausen in shootout to advance

<BR>Burghausen, Germany
A capacity crowd in Wacker Arena saw Bayern Munich beat Wacker Burghausen in a shootout to advance to the 2 Round of this season's DFB Cup.

Bayern Munich pour shot after shot on Wacker Burghausen's goalkeeper ,Manuel Riemann, only to see the 3 Division club take the lead in the 61 Minute when Wacker Burghausen striker, Thomas Neubert, looped a header over Oliver Kahn.

Just 17 seconds had passed when Ribery took a shot that missed by inches . Riemann made his first save from Altintop on three minutes, However, almost gave Burghausen the lead when Hungarian midfielder Levente Schultz forced Oliver Kahn into a save near the post.
Ottmar Hitzfeld: ”We basically played well. We played convincing football and made further progress. The problem was wastefulness. Sometimes we were unlucky, and sometimes we were denied by an outstanding Manuel Riemann. Compliments to Burghausen, they played above themselves, they were totally motivated, quick, aggressive, and they kept our defenders busy too. It was a cracking tie with everything you want from the Cup. But the match also showed we still have a lot of work to do. We have to do a lot more than simply turn up, even the last doubter must be convinced of that by now.“

Oliver Kahn: “All I’ve been doing for the last 14 years is remain focused until I’m needed. Obviously, you’re always pleased when you save a couple of penalties. Wacker fought till they dropped, but I have to say I saw a fantastic Bayern team, playing fantastic football, but failing to put away its chances.“

Philipp Lahm: “It was decent stuff from us. We created any number of chances and we were very solid at the back, but it’s always hard work when you fail to take your chances.“

Mark Van Bommel: “We weren’t great, but we weren’t bad either. You normally lose matches where you have 20 shots but none of them goes in. Young Riemann was lucky in that we kept shooting at him, and when we didn’t, we hit the bar or the post.“

Ingo Anderbrügge (Wacker coach): “I don’t see it in a negative light at all. Obviously you’re disappointed after you’ve been one penalty away from a massive upset. My lads showed we have a decent team again. I’m proud of the way they managed to match Bayern for so long. That’ll give us confidence for the league. Manuel Riemann is a pretty sorted guy for his age, he could have a bright future ahead of him.“

Manuel Riemann (Wacker keeper): “Disappointment is the main emotion at the moment, because we were so close to a miracle. But I want to praise the team for the fight we put up.”