2007 U-17 FIFA World Cup:Germany and Colombia draw in goalfest

<BR>Cheonan, South Korea
Germany have opened their 2007 FIFA U-17 World Cup campaign with a draw against Colombia in Cheonan, South Korea.

The opening goal of the match came in 14 minute when Colombia captain Miguel Julio met a free kick with a header. The Germans began creating chances before Dennis Dowidat netted a 34 minute equaliser, accelerating past his marker down the right and arrowing a drive into the far top corner from a tight angle. The Europeans took the lead just five minutes later after a passing move down the right flank, Richard Sukuta-Pasu converting a low cross to hand his side a 2-1 half time lead.

The Germans got their 3 goal of the game with a similar move just after half time. Toni Kroos supplied a cross for Dowidat to poke him his second of the game during the 49 minute. Colombia tied the game with a penalty shot and a long range goal from Cristian Nazarith in the 66 minute and 88 minute respectively.

"Standings after Monday's games"
Heiko Herrlich (GER), "Germany coach":
"We knew Colombia were very dangerous at set plays, and that's how they scored their first goal. But compliments to my team for hitting back straightaway. We were in the driving seat after that and thoroughly deserved our lead. Colombia played a lot of long balls in the second half, exactly as we expected, and that's how they ended up equalising. Obviously, my lads are a shade disappointed because we've thrown it away today. But I can't fault my players, they gave everything in difficult conditions. Colombia kept clean sheets against Brazil and Argentina at the South American championships, but we've scored three against them today."

Eduardo Lara (COL), "Colombia coach":
"That was a crucial match for us. We started well, but unfortunately we fell 3-1 behind, so I'm incredibly proud of the fact we were able to turn it around. Normally, our main strength is our organisation, but unfortunately we made a few unnecessary errors in defence today, and that has to change. Cristian Nazarith was excellent today, but all my players are working very hard for our success and for the team."

Nils Teixeira (GER), "Germany defender":
"After a nervous start, we settled well. We played the better football, we had Colombia under control, and we deserved our 3-1 lead. But we dropped too deep after that, and their long-ball game paid off for them. In our remaining games, we need to keep it a little tighter at the back and not drop too deep, although there's not a lot to improve in our attacking play."

Miguel Julio (COL), "Colombia midfielder":
"The opening goal should have given us the confidence we needed, but after that we let Germany play far too much football. I'm still extremely happy with the result, because in my opinion, Germany are the strongest team in the group. Now we'll do our best to beat Trinidad and Ghana."