2007 FIFA U-17 World Cup: Ghana vs. Germany

<BR>Cheonan, South Korea
Germany have qualified for a place in the Round of 16 at the 2007 FIFA U-17 World Cup by defeating Ghana 3-2 in their 2 Group F match at the Cheonan Sports Complex today.

The Germans put the Africans under pressure from the first whistle and were rewarded for their positive attitude by a 5 minute goal from Sascha Bigalke. The outstanding playmaker Bayern Munich's Toni Kroos increased Germany's lead in the 12 minute when his free-kick from 20 yards out 1 hit the post before bouncing in off Ghana keeper Joseph Addo. Kroos made it 3-0 for Germany in the 27 minute after a through ball from Bigalke.

Ransford Osei and Sadick Adams got a goal a piece in the 52 minute and 53 minute respectively to make it 3-2..

Germany's Konstantin Rausch was shown a red card in the 2 half, but they held on for the win.
Heiko Herrlich (GER), "Germany coach:"
"We were magnificent in the first half. We could have scored five or six against a team of the calibre of Ghana. We just had that little bit of luck in the end, but even when we were down to ten men, the boys fought for each other. When you look at the game as a whole, I think it was a more than deserved win, despite the tight finish. Toni Kroos led the team superbly and took on more responsibility when we went down to ten men. He is a true captain."

Sellas Tetteh Teivi (GHA), "Ghana coach:"
"Of course we are disappointed. In the second half, we showed the form we were aiming for in the first half. We definitely need to talk about that and change it for the future. We have to win our last game against Colombia now. If we get a second win we'll definitely reach the Round of 16."

Toni Kroos (GER), "Germany midfielder:"
"We played fantastic football in the first 20 minutes and created a lot of chances. After getting into such a good position, we were then focusing on not conceding a goal. The two goals right at the start of the second half threw us off our game, but we'd got back on track again by the end."

Sadick Adams (GHA), "Ghana forward:"
"We are very disappointed. We were determined to win this game, but we couldn't find our form in the first half. It was a great comeback in the second half, but it just wasn't enough. We really need to win our last game now. We have certainly learned a lot from this match."
"Standings after Thursday's games"

"Standings after Thursday's games"