Peace activists propose 'Fast for Freedom'

Mahatma Gandhi's grandson, Arun Manilal Gandhi, was interviewed by Peter Sissons on behalf of BBC News 24. Peter asked what Mahatma Gandhi would have done had he seen the Al-Qaeda problem. "Why don't all the Muslims, Christians and other religions have a day of fasting to show Al-Qaeda that we reject their philosophy," Arun Manilal Gandhi, founder of "M.K. Gandhi Institute for Nonviolence", replied.

Inspired by Arun Gandhi's words, Heidi Hog, from United Kingdom, and Mike Wacht, from Orlando, Florida, began a foundation for a peace movement, "Fast for Freedom 8·8·8 ". 

Heidi Hog turned inspiration into action launching [the] "Fast for Freedom 8·8·8" campaign. "I maybe simplistic but sometimes its the simple things that need to be addressed," Heidi H. says. Heidi represents [the] Hogshead.tv Publicity Committee and works in distributing the truth. "Funny to think that the people who suffer the most are the ones without the chance to voice their opinion," Heidi said. 

Mike Wacht works in public relations and marketing, focusing on transportation and construction. He is a member of the 511 Deployment Coalition and designer of "Fast for Freedom 8·8·8" logo. "I want to reach the whole world and let the displaced and unfortunate know they are not forgotten. It's been an inspiration and a small attempt to make a difference. I've never tried to start a world-wide movement before, so I'm fumbling through with a little imagination and a lot of faith," said Mike W.

Mike W. and Heidi H. have never met in person and hope to be examples of how effortless strangers can unite together.

A worldwide fast on August 8, 2008 is proposed, beginning at midnight for a 24-hour period. Fasting is practised in many religious traditions and spiritual practices.

Heidi H. and Mike W. advocate "Fast for Freedom 8·8·8" as a way for people to share in the experience. "It's not about disarming the world or banning armies and guns and weapons of mass destruction. It's about one day denying food, greed, arrogance,and violence," said Mike W.

The proposed day of action, August 8, 2008, has generated many supporters, according to Heidi H. and Mike W. "There is a fresh buzz about encouraging people in a one-day peaceful fast from all nations to participate worldwide against war, famine, starvation, and aggressive secret governments."