2007 FIFA U-17 World Cup: Ghana beat Peru in Quarter finals

The Black Starlets, Ghana's Under-17 football team, today beat their Peru counterparts by 2-0 margin to qualify for the semi-finals of the 2007 FIFA U-17 World Cup in South Korea.

Ghana dominated the match from the beginning but had to wait till stoppage time in the first half before scoring their first goal. Sadick Adams collected a pass from Ransford Osei, but saw his initial shot blocked by Eder Hermoza, the Peru goalkeeper. He however managed to score from the rebound.

The second half continued as the first with Ghana ending up with 55% of the total ball possession and with 12 shots on target compared to 1 shot on target for Peru. In the 53 minute, an overhead kick by Issac Donkor hit the upright before Osei slotted it home to guarantee victory. This goal makes Osei joint top scorer of the tournament so far on 5 goals.

Ghana are scheduled to meet Spain in the semi-final on Wednesday September 5, 2007.

Sellas Tetteh Teivi (GHA), Ghana coach: "First of all, I'm thankful that we won this game. I'm also happy because we played good football. It's great to have played three South American teams in this tournament. The Peruvians, in particular, were a very good side and played impressive football. We were lucky to score the first goal in the 46 th minute and that set the trend. I'm not satisfied with two goals but I think we're going to improve in the games to come. We believe we can play good football against any team, even if Spain are very strong."

Juan Jose Ore (PER), Peru coach: "The pitch wasn't easy due to the rain, and the game itself was a tough one for us. But we gave it our all. I think the goal in the first half in stoppage time changed the game. It was crucial. We never really recovered from it."

Paul Addo (GHA), Ghana captain: "It was a very good game for us. We didn't score as many goals as we created chances, but still we managed to keep the Peruvians from scoring. As for our next opponents, Spain, I saw them play on television just before our game and I think the semi-final will be tough. Even so, we'll be playing our normal game. Hopefully that'll be enough."

Reimond Manco (PER), Peru midfielder: "I'm very, very sad because we're out of the tournament, but we gave everything out on the pitch. This tournament has taught me that football is the most beautiful game in the world. I'll be trying to win a place at the U-20 World Cup."