Winners of 2007 Taiwan Sports Elite Awards named in Kaohsiung

With main topic of "Sports Elites Shining in Port City - Kaohsiung", winners of 2007 Taiwan Sports Elite Awards, organized by Republic of China Sports Federation (ROCSF) and supervised by Sports Affairs Council, Executive Yuan of R.O.C., Taiwan (abbr. as SAC Taiwan), were announced and awarded at September 9 (Sports Day) in Kaohsiung Municipal Social Education Center.

Organizers and arena host "Kaohsiung Municipal Social Education Center" held a warming up event before main award ceremony starts in the evening, such as "One Million Star" entertainer Zap An and Stanley Hsu, and Taiwanese music band "Cherry Boom" showed at warming up event.

After the warming up event, organizers invited all of nominees and VIPs coming in the Auditorium for the Award Ceremony. Firstly, organizers invited the main host Lieh Yang soloed an English song "My Way" to show the expression for reaching a better achievement. After the solo, Frank Hsieh (former Premier of the Republic of China) awarded "Lifetime Achievement Award" for Chi-en Tseng with Tseng's contribution of Basic and Professional Baseball in Taiwan.

With the 10 years anniversary of SAC Taiwan, organizer invited former Commissioners of SAC Taiwan (Nancy Chao, Yi-hsiung Hs, Te-fu Lin, and Chuan-shou Chen) awarded awards for winners of Best Sportsmanship, Public Sports Promotion, Best Coach, Best Sports Team groups.

In the winners of 2007 Taiwan Sports Elite Awards, former Chinese Taipei Baseball National Team Coach Chih-hsien Yeh won Best Coach and Best Sports Team awards because of winning Gold Medal at 2006 Doha Asian Games, as Mr. Yeh knew that Tseng won "Lifetime Achievement Award" earlier and won two awards afterward, he prepared and gave a special signed baseball to Tseng to thank his contribution of Baseball in Taiwan.

After the Award Ceremony, the organizer held a closing event "Dreams come true as reaching far at 2008 Olympics" to cheer every sportsperson with chasing a better goal in the future.