a hrefhttp://www.amazon.com/review/R205OAX284SIMieUTF8videoPreplay1 onClickreturn cvmoOTYXBAMRIF04loadSwf() targettopimg80 border0 srchttp://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/81ppteZJwKS.SX320PHcustomer-video-vignettePIvideo-reviews-bottom,BottomLeft,0,43OU01PIcustomer-video-play,BottomLeft,130,-12CR0,0,0,0.png altClick to watch this video idcvmoOTYXBAMRIF04preplayImageId //a Length:: 0:45 MinsNOTE ON VIDEO:I've made this to illustrate the current works of Fire TV's voice search feature. It appears to be limited to Amazon content, at least for videos. I believe that they do include a third party service if you search for music.I am searching for House of Cards, Season 2, a Netflix original. I am a Netflix subscriber so I would expect the Netflix listing to be displayed but Fire TV only returns the show's Season 1 available for purchase at Amazon and does does not list Netflix at all. As a Netflix subscriber, I could watch both seasons 1 and 2 for free but, according to Fire TV's search, Season 2 doesn't exist and I'd have to pay 2.99 per episode if I wanted to watch Season 1.See how Roku's search (second half of video) correctly shows that Season 1 is available from Netflix, Amazon, MGo and Vudu and that I can gety get Season 2 from Netflix. It's also telling me (checkmarks) that I subscribe to 3 of the 4 services listed.It's up to everyone to weigh Amazon's faster and more convenient voice search feature that returns Amazon-only content vs. Roku's ability to find content across the channels/services it carries.REVIEW BEGINS HERE:As a current/former owner and user of streamers such as Roku 3, Roku Stick and Google's Chromecast and also streaming/gaming platforms such as PS3/PS4 and Xbox 360/One, I believe I can do a fair assessment on what Amazon's Fire streamer is about and how it compares with the alternatives. I rely on reviews to help me make informed and rational purchase decisions and, hopefully, my assessment of Amazon's Fire TV may help others decide whether this is what they need or want.BROAD ASSESSMENTThe Fire TV will have to find its place in a pretty crowded marketplace. From what I've experienced so far, due to its tight integration with the Fire HDX tablets and Amazon's own Instant Video service in search it should be a great pick for anyone who owns the Amazon tablet and already subscribes to Amazon's Prime. Its ability to play games and the ease of downloading them should also appeal to non-hard-core gamers. For everybody else, depending on one's specific needs and expectations, the Fire TV may or may not be the 'right' streamer to buy.As one who purchased Amazon's original Kindle Fire on day one and went through several generations of Amazon's Kindle reader I expect that Amazon's streamer will also evolve or grow overtime. Amazon will listen to 'us' and the next generation streamer will be a much more interesting, 'new and improved', more capable and better tuned to our needs and wants. Until then, I would say that the current Fire TV is a competent, Amazon-content-biased (through search) streamer with gaming capabilities, lacking some in content and showing some innovation on search (offset by its currently favoring Amazon's service) and the user interface in general. Parental controls and the games could make it a favorite streamer if young children are also watching. If all you want is streaming and don't care about casual gaming you may feel that you are paying for capabilities that you don't need.CONTENTThe Fire TV offers most but not all mainstream services and I suspect it covers what most of us will ever want to access and I am sure that more services will be added in time. However, at this time Amazon's selection pales when compared to Roku's 1000+ wildly diverse channels but the Rokus have been around for a while. All mainstream services now on Fire TV are also available on Roku, PS3/4, Xbox 360/One and many on Google's Chromecast.Fire TV attempts to be a little different when it comes to accessing content, allowing for voice search but results are currently returned mostly from Amazon's Instant Video. By comparison, Rokus offer text based cross-service search with results returned from most 'big' providers. Amazon's attempt to predict and preload what we are most likely to watch will have to be assessed over a longer period of time so, time will tell.The soon to be implemented parental controls should differentiate and distinguish Amazon's product from the competition once they are implemented.INNOVATIONAmazon's great innovative, revolutionary, disruptive device was the Kindle reader and the enhanced Kindle Paperwhite. I suspect that thousands of acres of trees are still known as 'forests' instead of 'recyclable material' these days because of the Kindle. Amazon's Fire tablets are nice but they are... tablets. The Fire TV streamer/gaming device falls probably under 'okay' or 'interesting' streamers and 'not too bad' gaming platforms.The quad-core CPU is also nice but, whether I'm streaming on a significantly more powerful PS4 or a tiny one-core CPU Chromecast, the video/audio quality seems to be comparable and practically indistinguishable. I assume that the reason for a more powerful CPU is the game-playing part.The lack of large permanent storage (HDD) implies that, as a gaming platform, the Fire TV will allow for mostly small to medium-size games with a lot of cloud interaction and storage. Again, a feature that may not be suitable for those whose ISPs charge by the Megabyte or impose a monthly download quota on their customers.Game playing on the Fire TV works but those used with big console's lag-free controllers that 'rumble', talk back and sense motion may not view the Fire TV as a serious gaming platform.I would say that Amazon's streamer is solidly in the mainstream as far as innovation. It's a quality product but not a revolutionary one and that's still Okay.VALUEThere's very little that Amazon's Fire TV does that other platforms don't do.- The PS3/4 and the Xbox 360/One are vastly superior gaming platforms and equally good streamers and multimedia machines. Only they are much larger physically and cost significantly more.- The Chromecast and the Rokus are a lot more innovative and allow for a lot more flexibility and integrate nicely with tablets and PCs and allow for streaming personal content without being limited to a specific brand or model of tablet. They are also somewhat more difficult to setup.- Small streamers such as the Roku Stick and the Chromecast are very portable as they fit into one's shirt pocket. Amazon's Fire TV could be carried around at least in theory but it's not as easy to move around.- Roku is still the leader of 'content' but Amazon's selection should cover what most of us want to watch most of the time.- The Fire TV costs a lot more than a Roku or a Chromecast but, even if a gaming controller is added, is still less than a PS3 or an Xbox 360- Voice search as implemented on Fire TV at the time I am writing this (restricted to Amazon and Vevo) is in effect hiding content from other services, potentially costing you money if one show is available to purchase or rent at Amazon but it may be also carried by another service you subscribe to as a 'free' stream.WHO NEEDS ITAnyone who already has one or more Roku, Chromecast or Xbox, Playstation in their homes probably don't need one at this time. Unless they are tightly integrated into Amazon's ecosystem or are cable cutters who wish some tighter controls over what their kids are watching.Those who are looking for their first streamer should consider- Fire TV's ease of use (beats the Chromecast but it's probably on par with Roku and the Xbox/Playstations)- Amazon's great user support- Roku's enormous channels selection- Playstation and Xbox being clearly superior gaming platforms (if you don't mind paying up to 60 for newly released games)- Amazon's attempt to keep their users confined to Amazon's own hardware platforms and content streams vs. Roku's and Chromecast relative openness- Fire TV's split gaming/streaming personality (Jack of 2 trades) vs. Roku's and Chromecast focus on streaming- Price, of courseIt's not an easy decision to make. I would be very happy with the Fire TV if it was the first streamer device in the house. With so many stream-capable and game-playing boxes/sticks already operating and doing well, I like Amazon's Fire TV for being a well designed, capable streamer with some nice extra capabilities but I also like and I've been using the Rokus for their huge number of channels and portability and great interface and the Chromecast for allowing me to easily send whatever is in my Chrome browser to the TV. I hope that Amazon's search will soon expand to cover non-Amazon services or it won't be a useful tool. I may not have the the Fire TV attached to the big TV in the living room but our daughter who happens to be a faithful Kindle and Amazon Prime user asked for it in her room.