I love the Amazon Fire TV but . . . (I considered giving it only 3 stars for the comments listed below, but I really like it)OK, after only owning the Amazon Fire TV since last Friday, April 4th, I suspected the limited 8GB of internal memory would be a problem and it is.As of last night, April 9th, my Fire TV internal storage was full. I was trying to install the Deus Ex game that is available for Fire TV and received that message that I needed to delete something. So, I started deleting a few games and finally had enough deleted that it started downloading again except I think it started all over again. About 90 of the way through downloading the 2ND TIME, I got the same message to delete some more. So, I deleted a few more games and then it took off downloading again from the beginning again Then, it completed the download and started installing the game and then I got the same message again for a 3RD TIME That made me say a few choice wordsAt that point, I said to heck with it and figured I'd wait to see if Amazon does anything about this. So, I spent 7 on a game I didn't get to play. See, the USB port isn't enabled so there is no support for external storage. From what I saw, the Fire TV App takes up 2.2 GB of the total 8GB available. Heck, The Walking Dead app alone is over 1GB in size. I can't verify this but I swear each time I was downloading Deus Ex it used up another 700+ MB of memory and when the download didn't complete I didn't get the storage back So, in (3) attempts to get it installed I swear I used up 2 to 3 GB of internal storage that is still gone. I was looking through all of the apps/games that I have installed and didn't add it up but I really don't have that much installed right now and it only looks like it amounts to 2 to 3GB but where the other 2 to 3GB is, is a mystery. I deleted like (8) total games with a couple of them in the 400 to 500MB range and never got Deus Ex installed.Amazon needs to get this fixed fast for anybody that purchased the Fire TV for any sort of Android gaming purposes. Just hope they fix it faster than OUYA did which took like 6 months plus to enable external storage.I would like to add, that it is a huge engineering oversight, in my opinion, to only give the Fire TV 8GB of internal store. Just enable the USB port to allow for external store I would gladly go out and buy a 15 32GB USB memory stick or even spend the 50 to 60 on a 500GB external hard drive.In this day and age, the Fire TV should come with at least 32GB of internal storage That would allow for at least the storage of (60) 500 MB game considering maybe 2GB would be used up for the Amazon Fire TV app. That would be reasonable and fair.Today, 2.2 GB is used for the Fire TV app leaving less than 6GB of internal store. Considering The Walking Dead is over 1GB just by itself, that leaves only 5GB left. What is left only allows for (10) more 500MB games. So, a system that only allows the installation of (10) to (12) games/apps at 500MB each clearly isn't big enough.