Ok first off, if you are looking to get one of these things dont put all your eggs on one basket as far as other reviewers go. The bad ones I think are just haters, apple lovers, people who dont have one, or have nothing better to do but to not give thing a proper review.I got mine yesterday and had a few hours to play with it and use it. I have XBox 360 and used that for my Netflix and Amazon Prime but wanted something else to do that with. So Amazon came out with this and ordered it. Here is a list of good and bad. But understand I dont own apple or Roku.The Good:1. The speed and response on this thing is VERY VERY fast.2. The video quality is great. It truly is 1080p. I think that is better the what my XBox puts out3. The sound quality is great. I used a HDMI plugged it in to my 5.1 and sounds great.4. The hook up was very easy and straight forward. It is a plug and play.5. Hooking up to home network was very simple. I use the wireless and it so far runs flawlessly.6. The remote is small and very simple and not complicated very straight forward and very smooth.7. The movie and show load up time is very instant. With my Netflix it took no time at all to load up unlike my Xbox.8. This is the best part I thing anyway and so far no has said anything about this is...That you can take it with you on a trip. As long as the T.V has a HDMI and you can get on the wireless you can watch your programs or movies on any T.V. I think that is the best part about it all.9. It is small and very light.10. The voice search works really well.Cons and these may not be cons or bad for you.1. The voice search will only find movies or programs on Amazon Prime. But from what I hear that is cause of a deal thing with the other providers and that may change in the further.2. You can not power it down or put it to sleep. But for me that is no big deal. And really you can just unplug it if you want.Summery:Over all I find this unit works really well and it is very responsive. I have yet to see any lag with the things that I have watched or played with.Note: I have not used the games for this so this is only for the programs. I put it through its paces for the few hours that I have used it and so far I think that Amazon did a pretty good job with this.Note: After looking at the box and reading the back of the box there is a note that says there will be a Spring 2014 update. So my thinking is that the stuff that is missing or things that are not there will be coming soon. Just remember that this JUST came out a few days ago and I am sure that things will only get better in time.