Well after using it last night and sleeping on it, (the experience... didn't actually sleep on my Fire TV) I had been debating between 4 and 5 stars. I am a longtime media streamer. I have 7 Rokus and have bought 3 more as gifts to family. I also have a Chromcast and an Xbox 360. Additionally I have tried various other streaming devices such as Netgear NeoTV, the D-Link MovieNite etc.(I am still trying to figure out why I bought the Chromecast the least useful gadget I have ever owned. )First of all the Fire TV is everything that Amazon claims it is. It is fast. It is sleek. The interface is handsome and of course very Kindle Fire like.After hooking it up it immediately downloaded updates. ( An annoying process that almost every new computing device does whether it is a phone, tablet, streamer, or computer. It seems to take forever but it is really not that long, it is just that we are in Christmas Morning opening presents mode and time slows down when you are excited about trying something new. -) )I give it 5 stars because Amazon delivered what it said it would. I doubt it will replace anyone's existing favorite. I would recommend it to anyone just entering the streaming media game and who has kids and Amazon Prime. It is a fantastic portal to Amazon products.Many people have tried to compare it to Roku, Apple, Chromecast etc but to me I compare it to my XBox. It plays Video, Music and Games so for some, who want to have a less expensive alternative to an XBox One, there it is. (Of course you cannot compare it XBox One or PS4 but not everyone wants to shell out 50 - 60 dollars for a game or 400-500 for a game console. This is plenty for the casual gamer or kids.)Being on the Android platform will allow the number of apps to increase exponentially and for watching Amazon's videos (Prime and Pay) it is perfect.About the experience....For Amazon's offerings it is the best out there. I highly recommend Amazon Prime as it is comparable to Netflix plus I have saved a bundle on free shipping. The interface for the movies is first class. The remote's FF and RW buttons also act as skip forward and skip back buttons. Press RW once to jump back 10 seconds or hold to rewind. Same for the FF button. The interface for Amazon video is similar to the new one for Netflix on Roku 3 with the entire screens background feature the highlight movie. Surprising the interface for Netflix on Fire TV is the older one not the new one.The Plex app works fine for all my DLNA needs. (playing media from my home computers)Wish list.1. Allow us to change the position of Apps. When you start adding apps the latest one is the first one on the list, so add them in reverse order to get your most frequently used ones at the top of the list. There is a row of tiles for Recently Watched that allow you remove from that list but it is kludgey. Those of you who have a kindle fire will recognize the system. Or add a quick Access or Favorites row of tiles at the top of the Home Screen.2. Would love to have Amazon tie into the Ultraviolet system. I have close to 200 movies there. You can reach it through the Flixster app but HD is not available on the Flixster app.3. HBOGo4. Vudu5. HBOGo6. Vudu7. HBOGo8. VuduAmazon....Get my pointIn summary I will keep it and use it for Amazon offerings. It will sit beside my Roku 3 which I will use for everything else until the apps on my Roku get ported to Fire. I do wish it had and infrared sensor so my Harmony remote could use it but it is not a showstopper.