This review is to try to offset some of Roku employees that are on here trying to knock this device.The first thing you notice after plugging everything in, is a 3-5 minute demo that you can unfortunately not bypass, even if you know your way around these types of devices. You will only see it once, and then you're good to go. The device is small and beautiful. The remote is better than any other device, including Roku 3, and my WD TV Live.First the PROs:- It's the fastest media streamer, by far. That's not only a good thing if you own one, but it will force Roku and other companies to stop skimping on the hardware, and firmware updating.- The menu is intuitive and easy to maneuver. You can't move things around yet, but I'm sure they will eventually let you customize your own page. As of now, the apps (which would be at the top, if I could change it) are at the bottom. Apps are larger and higher resolution than the Roku.- The voice button is amazing. For a first attempt, they almost got it right. I understand this is a proprietary device, so they will always want you to use Amazon instant video for your viewing. But this option should search for all of your linked accounts, including Hulu, Netflix, etc. I'm not sure that they will ever fix this, because they will lose money and viewers. Even so, it's still a PRO, because it does work well.- Streaming quality - WOW Everything I've tried buffers so quickly, that it's almost already at 1080p when it starts playing. With my Roku, Netflix looks great, but it takes 5-10 seconds to get there. I currently have 100Mbps of internet, so I'm not sure what everyone else goes through, but I can tell you this streams better than Roku. Period.- Overheating and reboots - My Roku 3 cannot handle more than a couple of hours of viewing before it decides that was too many rows of stairs. It gets exhausted, and it has to reset itself. This device is more powerful, and after using it all day today, I can say my Roku 3 will be immediately up for sale, once they add the Time Warner Cable and HBOgo apps.-- PLEX -- Okay, I always blamed my Plex for the long delays on my Roku. With my internet speeds, I could never understand why it was always loading at 1080p settings, regardless of the bitrate. Anyway, I was wrong. It's the device. Not only does the Fire TV have a much better PLEX app (which is beautiful, btw), but everything streams at maximum quality within seconds. No re-loading (buffering) during movie playback. And the movies are in a much nicer grid layout, so I don't have to sift through one row to get to a movie selection.Now the CONS:- Obviously it's still missing some apps. You are crazy if you think HBOgo will go much longer without being added. The same for other apps. They built it, so they WILL come.- Interface - it is nice, but as I stated in the PROs, you can't make changes to it, hopefully just for now. If it stays this way, it will be a little annoying to have to scroll down all the way just to get to my apps.- One major issue that is very upsetting to me, is the fact that they couldn't add two very important things - USB 3.0, and 802.11ac. If Amazon claims they were listening, they would also know that these two things would dramatically improve the user experience. I haven't plugged my WD 4TB hard to it yet, but it is a 3.0 hard drive. Now it will unfortunately revert to 2.0 speeds. Don't build a supposedly forward-thinking device with two things that are now considered dated. I have a feeling this was done to make money off the Fire TV 2. Thanks for that.Overall, it is the best device currently available, and they really made the experience fun. It does make you want to call your cable company and cancel service. Buy it...you will not regret it.