After having the FireTV for about a month now, I can confidently recommend this product for most people. Versus the current generation Apple TV, ChromeCast and Roku offerings, the FireTV is the best value due to it's access to a wide variety of content, build quality and advanced features. It's a device I have recommended to my (almost-elderly) parents my (geeky) friends.Best things about the FireTV: - It is fast - unlike the Roku it does not lag and feels like a high quality product - Has Amazon Prime Video access- if you have prime membership, this is the best accessory you can buy. Lots of great content from Comedy Central and newer movies versus Netflix. - An AppStore with apps games you actually want - Plex Showtime AnyTime are the big difference makers IMO. - If you have local video files on your network, Plex is the way to go. - Voice searchWorst things about the FireTV (which really aren't that bad): - Annoying/long intro video upon the first time you boot up - Larger power adapter versus Apple TV (Yes the little things count) - No HBOGO until late 2014 - Going to be a problem from the folks looking for their Game of Thrones fix this spring** - No chromecast/airplay like feature unless you have an amazon tablet**If you don't need HBOGO right now and don't have a bunch of apple products, stop reading this right now and buy this device. You won't regret it.** See below for ways around thisIf you are an advanced user and/or are on the fence this next section is for you.Before the FireTV, I had 3 Apple Tv 2's in my house that I used to access HBOGO, Hulu+, Netflix my local media through the infuse application. I had tried Roku's, ChromeCast and other media boxes/home theater pc's and the Apple TV worked best for me. While this has served me well there are obvious drawbacks - lack of 1080p video, limited app selection, no games, etc.... Which led me to trying the FireTV.Because the FireTV is based on android, android apps can be side loaded on the device and many work fine. The steps below will outline how to get started side loading apps to your FireTV. You may want to have a usb keyboard and mouse handy - you'll need them to get a few things running. Any old usb keyboard/mouse you have lying around should work OK.(The following links provide the best directions I have come across during my time with the device and have worked for me and should work for you too, but no promises)How to sideload applications to the FireTV:1. The first step in loading android apps is getting ADB set up on your machine can be done by following amazon's directions - developer.amazon.com/appsandservices/solutions/devices/fire-tv/docs/connecting-adb2. After that, you can go ahead and proceed with side loading applications, also by following amazon's directions - developer.amazon.com/sdk/asb/app-install.html3. If you aren't comfortable with working with the command line, and are running windows, you can try this great GUI application to automatically side load applications. - forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.phpt2736740Once you are able to send android apps (.apk) files to the FireTV, I recommend:1. Installing MXPlayer to allow .MKV .AVI video file playback: sites.google.com/site/mxvpen/download2. If your network drive/computer doesn't support plex, try using ESFileExplorer to navigate to play back video files - appsapk.com/es-file-explorer/3. AirReceiver which mimics the functionality of airplay on an appletv. Please note this only supports unencrypted video feeds. This is a paid app, buy play.google.com/store/apps/detailsidcom.softmedia.receiver4. HBOGO android app can be installed and works rather well. It does require a mouse to navigate.5. XBMC - If you know what this, you will want it and yes it works. Download via xbmc.orgFor the cord cutters out there, I've tried installing Aereo Slingbox with mixed results. Slingbox for tablets loads and opens ok. Using the mouse I was able to accept the terms conditions and input my user info. Unfortunately it doesn't load the video stream. Other folks have had success apparently, so it may be just me. Aereo side loads opens fine but I couldn't sign up for a trial as I am 1 town over from being in their current market area. I will update this review if I get any further with either.There are many more apps you may want to try so check out this comprehensive list of app functionality from the reddit.com/r/firetv folks - docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uD6cesLVtHwsoWDE9jlKsV9FtlUbQ3KvDQp6N9gbHE/editgid1337307432This list includes information on emulators roms which I didn't include in this review due to their dubious legality.