So when I moved into my house last year, I made the obligatory call to TWC for internet and cable TV. The bundled me into a 200 dollar per month bill which includes 30 Mbs internet (in theory -- in reality, I never see that), telephone (which I don't use because I have Verizon home phone connect, and TV with whole house DVR, all the premium channels (which I never watch), HDTV etc.After losing my job and having Time Warner get extremely nasty because I chose to spend what 200 bucks I had left on food and gas rather than paying them, AND the fact that they have THE WORST SERVICE (I had to swap out my box and waited in line for over an hour just to swap it out and then when the new box didn't work, wait yet another hour in line to get a 3rd box), I have decided NO MORE TWC.Amazon Fire TV is the corner stone of my plan to cut the cord. I've only had it for awhile tonight but I am so far blown away. The voice recognition works flawlessly (ok -- 1400 reviewers here... raise your hand if your first search term was Porn -- yeah, I'm immature) Regardless of what inappropriate word or attempts to baffle the system my teenage son and I threw at it, it recognized EVERYTHING (with the exception of his Latin -- ok, Amazon fire doesn't recognize Latin ... but neither do I)Went to the YouTube app because that is a part of my plan to ditch TWC -- could I play shows that were on YouTube that I currently watch via cable. Check. Paired with my computer (a mac), I just searched for the video that I want, hit play on the computer and it automatically is displayed on my TV.I've only had it unboxed for 1 hour so haven't tried Netflix or Hulu etc yet but one of the key activities I do a lot of is watching VOD from Amazon and it is SOOOOO much easier to do it using this device that via my BluRay player. Picture quality (even of standard def YouTube videos is nearly as good as cable).The next step of my plan to ditch TWC is getting Fiber Optic DSL installed. Once that has occurred, I will be going from a 200 dollar per month monopoly to 55 bucks per month plus whatever I choose to spend on renting movies etc on demand. AND, I never have to wait in line for hours to swap out hardware that I'm renting from the cable company...So for half the cost of 1 months worth of Time Warner, I'm going to be able to preserve what little is left of my sanity (which isn't much, given that I tried testing this out with bad words like a kindergartener) and the most fun I have had in awhile is listening to the cable customer service rep spend nearly an hour in trying to talk me out of not leaving (HIM: what if we gave you everything you have now for 160 Then would you stay ME: No... if you could provide the same level of service for 40 bucks less than you have been for the last year, why didn't you just do it then rather than making me pay over 40 bucks a month more than I needed to HIM: What if I bumped up your internet bandwidth to the next tier for free ME: Because I'm not even getting the advertised speed as it is)Sorry, TWC -- you are no longer a monopoly. There is another game in town. Thank you Amazon for giving me that ability to cut the cordp.s. (BTW, based on my little Porn experience, I will DEFINITELY be setting up the parental controls)NCJAR