Had I not purchased a Paperwhite first, I could easily settle on the HDX 7 as a reader as well as a color tablet. The size difference between the two is practically negligible as is the weight difference (the HDX7 is slightly larger and about 8 ounces heavier). I can hold the the HDX7 in my left hand quite comfortably--just not quite as comfortably as the Paperwhite. Moreover, the text of the Paperwhite seems to wear longer on older, tired eyes (especially after reading the hype on behalf of e-ink text) than that of the HDX--at least during extended stretches of continuous reading.Still, there are moments when my eyes crave color, images and videos beyond which the Paperwhite can deliver. The television set, cable, and ROKU box are my wife's, and I'm no longer doing as well by watching movies or concerts on the severely restricted real estate of an iPod screen--all of which doubles the attraction of a tablet like the HDX. It offers the freedom and privacy of an iPod but with video footage that offers a welcome size-advantage compared to the iPod screen.For traveling purposes, I'm good with the Paperwhite and an iPod--both pocket-sized and answering to my reading, listening and occasional viewing needs. The speakers of the HDX may be stereo but they're far from full-frequencied, perhaps only slightly better than those of a new iPod Touch. So I'd recommend earphones when using either an iPod or the HDX as a music player--or, if your partner won't complain, a good adjunct speaker (with a supple, light cable for better sound and more reliable connectivty than dicey Bluetooth technology offers).I frankly can't see an iPod or tablet performing the many functions of a computer or a camera (I'm one of the ever more conspicuous minority who still carry a dedicated point and shoot camera). But the price point of the HDX makes it an affordable luxury device for dedicating to specific and occasional uses. I've met people who no longer use any sort of computer, doing all of their Facebooking, e-mail and banking with a mere tablet (usually an Apple iPad or Mini). My sense is that the HDX would prove slightly more cumbersome for such purposes--Apple's tablet has the refined processor, continually upgraded OS, and widely established ecosystem to make it a better bet for most users thinking of ditching their laptops. Aside from the added cost of the Apple tablet (twice as much as the HDX), I'm simply not excited about tablets in general. The affordability of the HDX, which has now got several years of refinement behind it, makes it the preferred choice in my case.In conclusion, I've got to rate the Paperwhite 1 for my particular uses as well as for Amazon's scoring a game-changing consumer technology coup second only to the release of the first Apple iPod in 2002 and the Macbook Air in 2008 (though it was not accepted by the general public until Apple's decision to ignore the naysayers and release it again in 2010). Not only is the Paperwhite small, versatile, fast-loading, and beautifully back-lit (no more fumbling around and experimenting with various clip-on lights), but there's no subscription charge for long-distance connectivity to Amazon. And I find it reassuring that Amazon includes an official, no-charge, on-line User's Manual, for printing out on a Mac computer. With the HDX, on the other hand, there appears to be no single authoritative and free User's Guide. Instead, your choices for instructions are unlimited--and I would advise against proceeding intuitively, especially if you plan to make use of Amazon's uniquely integrated film commentary, thanks largely to Bezos heady and timely purchase of the popular IMDB reference source. It may be no drone, but in all other respects it stands alone.