This packet of glaze is the secret to making those European style fresh fruit tarts. I am about to make one for a pie auction at church, after a friend requested that something "strawberry" should be offered. You can make the most amazing and relatively "healthy" fruit tarts by baking a base, layering it with uncooked, fresh, sliced fruit, then pouring over the made-up contents of one of these packets. They harden up at room temperature, hold the fruit together so you can slice the tart, and they let the beauty of the arranged fruit show through. I've also seen this glaze used over cheesecakes, to hold a fruit topping in place. Personally, I do not like cheesecake (too rich for me) but a fruit glazed cheesecake is gorgeous, I will admit. To do this, slice fruit and layer it on the cheesecake while it's still in the springform pan. Pour on the glaze, let it set up and then remove the springform. You'll have a clear layer of fruit on top of the cheesecake. Cherries, strawberries or sliced mangos are nice, but the best one I ever had used thin slices of lemons, that had been gently poached in sugar syrup before they were layered on the cake.<br /><br />I use a base of sponge cake, baked in a shallow form, but other bases can be pate sucre  (a kind of French pastry that is a bit like a sugar cookie) that works well in those fluted, straight-sided forms. You can also make mini-tarts in a muffin pan, pre-baking each mold with a layer of pie crust (even commercial crust works, though again, I prefer pate sucre, it holds its shape better and is more substantial and has a better crumb.) Just blind-bake the muffin tins lined with pate, then pop them out and fill with fresh fruits (berries are great) and pour over the glaze. Some people put a layer of creme patisserie, which is a pastry cream like custard but stabilized with flour,  below the fruit and I happen to think these taste best.<br /><br />If you get into baking, this glaze is a must-have on the shelf. The ingredients are vegan: tapioca starch, carrageenan, dextrose, cream of tartar, locust bean gum, so if you are looking to make a vegan tofu cheesecake, you can use this on top, as well as use it for fruit tarts with a nut crust base.