I once loved these chips and they were the only chips i would buy.  I discovered them when I was in England back in 2000 and quickly became a fan.  About a year ago I picked up a bag that was on sale at my local supermarket.  I was finding it odd that they were on sale so much but took advantage of it.  After opening the bag I found the chips were not even close to the Kettle chips I was used to.  They were all uniform whitish yellow in color, flavor was way off, the lovely extra crisp brown chips were gone completely and I was very disappointed.  So I e-mailed Kettle with the following:  "What Happened? I bought this bag of chips the other day and they have a very different taste; It tastes "cheaper". I don't know how else to put it... I also noticed that the chips seemed to be less cooked as I did not see any of the browner colored chips that have the most flavor. I am hoping that nothing has changed with the ingredients or process used to produce this product. Did I just get a weird batch? I have been buying only Kettle Chips for about 10 years now so I am wondering."  I did receive a reply: "Thanks for letting us know about your experience with your Kettle Brand® Chips. It sounds like you may have received a bag that should not have slipped by our inspections, and we apologize.Our potatoes do vary seasonally which could account for a variation in color-but our chips should still taste great!Thanks for providing us with the "best before" code from the bag.  This really helps when passing on your comments to our staff.<br />We are sending some coupons to replace your purchase with any of our Kettle Brand® flavors or nut butters, believing you will have a great experience with your next purchase! In case you buy this product again, we suggest avoiding the same best before date (if you still have it) in the rare instance another bag from the same case slipped by our inspections at the same time.<br />Thanks again for letting us know about this and expect the coupons to arrive within 3 weeks.  Please let me know if I can be of any more help."  Well the next bag was good.  Since that time I have picked up 3 bags of chips all were like the "bad" bag so I am pretty sure that they have changed there product to reduce cost.  I did some research and found out that Kettle was bought out by a private equity company.  So the same cookie cutter management processes are probably being employed at Kettle.  Acquire company with high quality brand recognition, sell product to mass merchants, lower quality/cost of product to increase margin and finally sell company just before the customer base starts to realize that the brand is no longer a quality brand.  increased profits make the company more valuable on paper so they make a nice profit for the investors. Customer and employees lose out of course as does an unsuspecting buyer of the exploited brand.  Stay away from Kettle chips they are no longer the same...