June

June is the 6th month of the year, coming between May and July. It has 30 days. June is named for the Roman goddess Juno, the wife of Jupiter. She is goddess of marriage. Because of this, getting married in June was thought to be lucky. 

June never begins on the same day of the week as any other month, but always ends on the same day of the week as March.

June comes between May and July and is the sixth month of the year in the Gregorian calendar. It is one of four months to have 30 days.

No other month in any year, common or leap year, begins on the same day of the week as June. June ends on the same day of the week as March every year, as each others' last days are 13 weeks (91 days) apart.

In common years, June starts on the same day of the week as September and December of the previous year, and in leap years, April and July of the previous year. In common years, June finishes on the same day of the week as September of the previous year, and in leap years, April and December of the previous year.

Every year, June starts on the same day of the week as February of the following year. In years immediately before common years, June starts on the same day of the week as March and November of the following year, and in years immediately before leap years, August of the following year. In years immediately before common years, June finishes on the same day of the week as August and November of the following year, and in years immediately before leap years, May of the following year.

The month of June has a solstice, and in this month the Tropic of Cancer in the Northern Hemisphere is turned towards the Sun, meaning that June 20 or June 21 is the Northern Summer Solstice and the Southern Winter Solstice. This means that this date would have the most daylight of any day in the Northern Hemisphere, and the least in the Southern Hemisphere. There are 24 hours of daylight at the North Pole and 24 hours of darkness at the South Pole. In each hemisphere, June is the seasonal equivalent of December in the other.