Coal

Coal is a flammable black hard rock used as a solid fossil fuel. It is mainly made up of 65-95% carbon and also contains hydrogen, sulphur, oxygen and nitrogen. It is a sedimentary rock formed from peat, by the pressure of rocks laid down later on top. The harder forms of coal, such as anthracite, are metamorphic rocks because they were changed by higher temperature and pressure. 

Peat, and therefore coal, is formed from the remains of plants which lived millions of years ago in tropical wetlands, such as those of the late Carboniferous period (the Pennsylvanian). A similar substance made from wood by heating it in an airless space is called charcoal.

Coal can be burned for energy or heat. About two-thirds of the coal mined today is burned in power stations to make electricity. Coal is becoming less popular in new power plants as less expensive and less polluting technologies such as natural gas and hydroelectricity take over.

Coal can be roasted (heated in high temperature in a place where there is no oxygen) to produce coke. Coke is even better fuel than coal, and can be used in smelting to reduce metals from their ores.

Coke is a product of destructive distillation of coal, that is, coal is heated to about 400 degree celsius in the absence of oxygen to obtain coke. Coke is an almost pure form of carbon. The calorific value (energy produced when 1 Kg of a fuel is burnt) of coke is about 56,000 kilojoules/kilogram.

Under suitable conditions, plant material is transformed step by step into

Diamond is commonly believed to be the highest grade, but this is not true. Diamond is carbon but is not formed from coal. 

Coal contains impurities. The particular impurities determine the use. Coking coal has little ash or sulfur or phosphorus. Those would spoil the iron made by the blast furnace.

After 50 or 60 years of decline, coal production increased in the early 21st century.
Despite stringent carbon emissions targets in Europe designed to slow global warming and investment in renewable energy, more coal is mined per year than oil. In 2006 it was about 17 million tonnes of coal per day, vs 12 million tonnes of oil.

Coal-fired power stations are the cheapest way to provide energy. Population growth, especially in Asia, and the growth of the middle classes in China, are forces driving the need for more energy. To meet that need, people burn more coal. Here are the reasons:

Some of the world's largest economies are turning to coal. "Germany's decision to scrap all nuclear power and build more coal-fired power stations can only boost production further". On the other hand, coal burning is the most polluting form of energy. Though carbon sequestration is possible, it is seldom done.

Coal was an important part of rail freight in the UK in the 20th century, forming the greater part of several companys' freight volume. Early in the 21st century most coal fired power stations were closed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Far less coal is moved by rail.

In other countries, coal is still an important cargo of rail freight.


Since 1983 the world top coal producer has been China. In 2011 China produced 3,520 millions of tonnes of coal – 49.5% of 7,695 millions tonnes world coal production. In 2011 other large producers were United States (993 millions tonnes), India (589), European Union (576) and Australia (416). In 2010 the largest exporters were Australia with 328 million tonnes (27.1% of world coal export) and Indonesia with 316 millions tonnes (26.1%), while the largest importers were Japan with 207 million tonnes (17.5% of world coal import), China with 195 million tonnes (16.6%) and South Korea with 126 million tonnes (10.7%).