Nicole Kidman

Nicole Mary Kidman, AC (born 20 June 1967) is an Australian-American actress, singer and film producer. She began acting in movies in 1983. She starred in various Australian movies and television shows. Her first major role was in "Dead Calm" in 1989.

Her performance in the musical "Moulin Rouge!" (2001) earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. She later won the award in this category for playing Virginia Woolf in "The Hours" (2002).

Kidman is set to appear as Atlanna, Aquaman's mother, in the 2018 DC Comics-Warner Bros. movie "Aquaman" (2018).

Nicole Kidman was born in Honolulu, Hawaii while her Australian parents were temporarily in the United States on educational visas. Kidman can therefore claim citizenship in Australia and the United States. Her father, Antony David Kidman (1938-2014) was a biochemist, clinical psychologist, and author. Her mother, Janelle Ann (née Glenny), is a nursing instructor who edits her husband's books and was a member of the Women's Electoral Lobby. Kidman is of Scottish and Irish ancestry. At the time of Kidman's birth, her father was a graduate student at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. He soon became a visiting fellow at the National Institute of Mental Health of the United States. Opposed to the war in Vietnam, which was causing social unrest in both Australia and the United States, Kidman's parents participated in anti-war protests while they were living in Washington, D.C. The family returned to Australia when Kidman was four and her parents now live on Sydney's North Shore. Kidman has a younger sister, Antonia Kidman, a journalist and TV presenter.

Kidman's first movie was in 1983. It was called "BMX Bandits". Her first famous movie was "Dead Calm" in 1989.
Her first major movie was called "Days of Thunder", which also starred Tom Cruise. They fell in love during the filming of that movie and married. Kidman was then in more movies like "Flirting", "Billy Bathgate", "Far and Away", "Malice", "My Life" and "To Die For". All of these movies were successes.

She was then in movies like "Batman Forever" and "Practical Magic". In 1999 she starred in a movie with Cruise called "Eyes Wide Shut". They played a married couple in the movie. It was the last movie directed by director Stanley Kubrick. They separated and divorced after making "Eyes Wide Shut".

Since Kidman and Cruise divorced, she has been in movies including: "Moulin Rouge!", "The Others", "Cold Mountain", "The Stepford Wives" and "Bewitched".

She was married to Tom Cruise until 2001. She is now married to Keith Urban.