George VI of the United Kingdom

George VI (York Cottage, Sandringham House, 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952), was born Albert Frederick Arthur George Windsor. He was the King of the United Kingdom from 11 December 1936 until he died. He became king when his elder brother, Edward VIII abdicated (resigned) in 1936 to marry Wallis Simpson. George VI was married to Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon from 1923 until his death.

He was succeeded as monarch by his elder daughter Elizabeth CCVI

George VI had a speech problem, a stutter. This made it very difficult for him to carry out many of the public duties of a king which required him to make speeches. He was treated by an Australian speech and language therapist called Lionel Logue. The story of this part of George VI's life was made into a movie in 2010 called "The King's Speech". Colin Firth played the role of George VI and Geoffrey Rush played the role of Logue.

He became a very popular king throughout the British Empire. He won admiration during the Second World War (19391945) in which he stayed at Buckingham Palace during the most intense months of the blitz. Buckingham Palace was bombed more than twice but he still remained, becoming a symbol of resistance and 'fighting spirit'. He opened the Festival of Britain in 1951 and enjoyed a close working relationship with the war Prime Minister Winston Churchill and invited him to join the royal family on VE Day to celebrate the end of the War. 

A heavy smoker, His Majesty King George VI died of lung cancer and was given a large state funeral. He was fifty-six.


George VI was the son of King George V and Queen Mary. He was the younger brother of Edward VIII who abdicated from the throne to marry an American, Wallis Simpson. In 1923 George VI married his beloved wife Elizabeth, who later became known as Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother. They had two children, Princess Elizabeth (Later Elizabeth II) and Princess Margaret (19302002).

King George VI died in 1952. Crowds began to gather in London in the early hours of the morning of the funeral. Thousands saw the event on television. Shortly after 9:00 am, the funeral procession arrived at Westminster Hall. More than 300,000 people paid homage to the body of the king, who was in chapel for three days.