Super Mario 64 DS

Super Mario 64 DS is a platform game by Nintendo, and a remake of the 1996 video game "Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64. A cancelled sequel Super Mario 64 2 for Nintendo 64DD was planned, but not, because of it's commerical faiilure. Luigi was planned to appear in it to." It was first shown at E3 in 2004 and released for the Nintendo DS in Japan and in the United States in 2004, and in the PAL region in early 2005. The game received positive reviews and was the fifth best-selling video game on the weekly sales chart of the week of December 2004. It has rec room mini-games which are attained by catching rabbits and a multiplayer wireless VS. Mode, where 4 players can play to get the most stars and coins in 30 seconds, taken from 4 levels and there's three different colored Yoshis (red, blue, and yellow) the one with the card is Green Yoshi and other characters can get wings. In the main game, only Mario can get.

The game begins with a letter from Princess Peach inviting Mario to come to her castle for a cake she has baked for him. Mario travels to her castle, and is followed by his younger, twin brother Luigi and Mario's greedy counterpart rival Wario. Luigi accidentally starts a fight and after entering the castle, the three disappear, and Lakitu, the game's camera operator, finds Yoshi to inform him of the disappearance.

Yoshi eats a rabbit and unlocks a door to the castle and explores the castle and its courses to find his friends. Scattered throughout the castle are paintings and secret walls, which act as portals to other worlds where Bowser's minions guard Power Stars. By recovering the stars and defeating bosses, Yoshi acquires keys to other areas of the castle and rooms holding his friends captive. He first defeats Goomboss to free Mario who assists him as the two continue searching the castle and collecting Power Stars. Mario then defeats King Boo to free Luigi who then uses his invisibility power to get to Wario's key by defeating Chief Chilly. During the course of the adventure, they tackle three obstacle courses leading to a battle with Bowser.

Defeating him the first two times earns them a key that opens other levels of the castle. After collecting 80 stars and solving the mystery of the endless stairs, Mario accesses the top room of the castle to defeat Bowser. Once he is defeated, Peach is freed and appears in front of the castle. To thank the four protagonists, she kisses Mario and bakes them the cake that she had originally promised. The game finishes with Mario, Luigi, Wario, Yoshi and Peach standing at the front of the castle waving goodbye to the player as Lakitu films and then flies away.

Each of the characters have special abilities and their own strength and weaknesses.

Yoshi can't punch, kick, destroy bricks, or grab large enemies, but he can eat small enemies and turn them into throwable eggs and has the highest jump of the four and has average speed at both running and swimming.

Power - 0/3

Speed - 2/3

Swim - 2/3

Jump - 3/3

Mario is the most balanced of all the characters in all stats.

Power - 2/3

Speed - 2/3

Swim - 2/3

Jump - 2/3

Mario's brother Luigi, is almost as balanced. The only differences is that he jumps higher, swims faster, and is slightly thinner. He's the second highest (but best) jumper after Yoshi. He can somersault and run on water for a short period of time.

Power - 1/3

Speed - 3/3

Swim - 3/3

Jump - 3/3

Wario, Mario's rival, is the most difficult character to play with, because he's the slowest and has the lowest jump, but he can break objects that others can't and hit enemies harder.

Power - 3/3

Speed - 1/3

Swim - 1/3

Jump - 1/3

Just like how they were rumors of Luigi and Wario (who're now playable) in the original game, they were rumors of Waluigi in this game, but he didn't appear in either.