J. K. Rowling

J. K. Rowling OBE (born 31 July 1965 as Joanne Rowling) is a British author. She wrote the "Harry Potter" books. She only uses the name J. K. Rowling for her books: the "K" stands for "Kathleen" which was the first name of her grandmother.

Rowling was born 31 July 1965 in Chipping Sodbury, near Bristol, England. She grew up in Tutshill, Gloucestershire, and went to school at Wyedean Comprehensive. She earned a degree in French and Classics at the University of Exeter. She worked at Amnesty International in London. The original idea for Harry Potter came to her on a train that was delayed for four hours in 1990. She moved to Portugal to teach English in 1990. She married Jorge Arantes in October 1992. They had her first child, Jessica in 1993. The marriage ended in divorce and Rowling moved to Edinburgh, Scotland. "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" (British version) (American version: "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone") was first published in the United Kingdom in 1997. She married Dr. Neil Murray in 2001. She had a second child, David, in 2003, and a third, Mackenzie, in January 2005. Rowling is a Christian.

Rowling has won many awards for the Harry Potter series of books and has earned over $1 billion. The last book of the series - "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows" was released on 21 July 2007. Due to the popularity of the books, Rowling has become very rich. The books have sold over 400 million copies and popularity, however, are not limited to the Harry Potter series. Rowling has written many books about the magic in Harry's world, such as 'Quidditch Through the Ages' and 'Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them'. Additionally, she has written other books targeting adults, the first of which is titled "The Casual Vacancy". "The Cuckoo's Calling" was published in April 2013, under the pen name Robert Galbraith, and its sequel followed in June 2014, called "The Silkworm .She has been writing a book called Harry Potter and the curst child,for about two years now."

Rowling's novels feature a teenage boy named Harry Potter who grows up in a normal world with his aunt, uncle and cousin Dudley. When he is eleven years old, he discovers that he is a wizard and attends a magical academy called Hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry, where Albus Dumbledore is headmaster. Harry discovers his past about a dark wizard and with the help from his best friends Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger, he attempts to destroy the darkest wizard of all time, Voldemort, once and for all.