Batman

Batman is a fictional character created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger for DC Comics. He is one of the most famous and popular superheroes. Batman began in comic books and was later used in several movies, TV programs, and books. There are also many toys and other merchandise dealing with Batman and other characters and items from the world he lives in. Batman lives in the fictional city of Gotham City. Batman is named Bruce Wayne when not in costume. Bruce Wayne is a very rich businessman.

Batman was first named "Bat-Man" by Kane. Batman made its first appearance in 1939 in "Detective Comics No. 27". He was the second superhero to be created. The first was Superman. Batman's origin story is that as a young child, Bruce Wayne saw a robber named Joe Chill murder his mother and father after the family left a theatre. Bruce decided that he did not want that kind of violence to happen to anyone else. He dedicated his life to protect his city, Gotham City. Wayne learned many different ways to fight as he grew up. As an adult, Wayne used a costume to scare criminals so that there would be less crime in Gotham. He called himself Batman.

Batman uses many different tools to help fight crime. These include his car which he calls "the Batmobile", a special belt full of tools called a "utility belt" and bat-shaped boomerangs called "batarangs."
Batman is also helped from other people in Gotham. Some of these people also put on costumes and become superheroes when they help him. Some of the people who help him are his sidekick, Robin (Dick Grayson), his butler Alfred Pennyworth, police commissioner James Gordon, Wayne Enterprises CEO Lucius Fox, and Gordon's daughter Barbara Gordon. Barbara Gordon became a superhero named Batgirl (and later used the name Oracle) Commissioner Gordon uses the Bat-Signal that shines a light into the sky with a shadow in the shape of a bat on it to tell Batman that he needs help. This light is called the Bat signal. He is often, but not always, shown being friends with Superman. When Batman teams up with other superheroes, their teams are called the Justice League of America or JLA for short. Sometimes, Batman will team up with a JLA member without it being a JLA story. For example, Green Arrow.

Some of the villains that Batman fights, called his are the Joker, Penguin, Ra's al Ghul, Scarecrow, Talia al Ghul, Poison Ivy, Catwoman, Mr. Freeze, Bane, Riddler, Two-Face, and Clayface.

Because of the way Batman deals with criminals, he is often seen as not being a hero by police. Once he has even took on the full justice league.

In the 1960s, a live-action television series was made of Batman. In "Batman", Adam West was the actor who was Batman and Burt Ward was the actor who was Robin. There are also many of cartoons with Batman as a character. These include "Superfriends", "", "Batman Beyond", and "Justice League". There are other cartoons and programs where Batman is a character but he is not the most important part of the story, such as "Birds of Prey". This was a live-action series that is about Batman's daughter, the Huntress. The newest show is Beware the Batman.