Nintendo DS

The Nintendo DS (also known as the DS Phat) is the third handheld system from Nintendo. It was released in 2004 and 2005. It has a successor called the Nintendo 3DS, the very first 3D handheld. The DS is a small, nearly pocket-size fold-up machine that lets people play video games. The games are stored on small cartridges which are like memory card chips from digital cameras. Some games, such as "Super Mario 64 DS", were released on the same day as the original DS.

For most of Nintendo's systems, there have been no load times, except for the GameCube and Wii. With the DS, a level in the game loads up quickly, just like with Game Boy games. This is because cartridges can be read a lot quicker than CDs or DVDs.

The DS also has many new features. It has a new surround sound system. The DS also has backwards compatibility with the Game Boy Advance. However, the DS is incapable of playing the Game Boy or Game Boy Color games. The DS features a touch screen, a screen often used for extra gameplay (like a PDA). The DS packaging comes with two styluses.

The Nintendo DS is one of the rivals of Sony's PlayStation Portable. However, both Nintendo and Sony state that their products were aimed at different people, so there is "technically" no competition. The DS has currently sold more units than the PSP has.

Nintendo later developed and newer variation of the Nintendo DS, known as the Nintendo DS Lite. It was first released on March 2, 2006 in Japan and later on June 11, 2006 in North America.

The DS Lite is compatible with the same games. It is smaller and lighter and features a backlit screen. Because of its design, the Game Boy Advance games stick out in Slot 2. The second slot also features a cover for players to when not in use. The DS Lite is sold in white, black, pink, blue, red, and silver. This console even has colors such as metallic rose, metallic silver, and black with white.

Some of the DS's bestselling games are "Nintendogs", "Mario Kart DS", "New Super Mario Bros", "Brain Age", "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, and ".

There are many accessories for the Nintendo DS, including different coloured styluses and protective cases. Some protective cases include the highly durable Nerf cases. Most DS systems have a screen protector and a car adapter, used to charge the DS in a car.

The DS has sold 154.01 million units as of July 14, 2015, making it the best selling handheld of all time. It has currently beat the record of its sibling console (The Game Boy/Game Boy Color), which has sold 118.69 million.