RMS Titanic

The RMS "Titanic" was a British passenger ship. It was built by Harland and Wolff ship builders, in Belfast, for the White Star Line company. She sank during her first trip at sea.

Before she sailed, many people thought it would be almost impossible for ships of this design to sink.

At 11:40 on 14 April 1912, during "Titanic' "maiden voyage, she hit an iceberg in the Atlantic Ocean. The iceberg broke the "Titanic"' hull (bottom), letting water into the ship. The "Titanic" sank two hours and forty minutes later at 2:20 on 15 April.

As she sank, the "Titanic" split in two. The wreck killed over 1,500 people. Only around 705 people survived. It was one of the worst shipwrecks that was not during a war.

One reason why so many people died was because the ship did not have enough lifeboats for everyone on board. Higher class women and children were allowed on the lifeboats first, and passengers who sailed in first class (which meant that they paid for better rooms on the ship) were allowed on before other passengers. Few of the poorer people who had paid less (called second class and third class passengers) got out safely.

Not many lifeboats were on "Titanic", because the "Titanic" was said to be unsinkable. Everybody thought that, even if the ship wrecked or crashed, she would not sink.

Another reason so few people survived was that the radio was off on the "SS Californian", the ship closest to the "Titanic." The "Californian" crew did not hear about the accident. Another ship, the "SS Carpathia", did hear about the accident and collected all 705 survivors.

The last survivor of the 'Titanic disaster to die was a woman named Millvina Dean. She was the youngest passenger on board, as she was then a baby of only nine weeks old. She died in Ashhurst, Hampshire, England on 21 May 2009 aged 97.

The "Titanic" disaster changed many maritime ship laws. Because so many people died, authorities felt that laws should be put into place to make ship travel safer. Changes included requiring all ships to carry enough lifeboats for everyone on the ship, and emergency materials such as flares. Someone must be at the ship's radio all the time.

The wreck was found by a French and American team, led by Robert Ballard, on September 23, 1985 at 1:02 in the morning.

In 1986, Ballard returned to the wreck with a submarine. He took many photos and made lots of films.

In 1987, a French team salvaged 900 objects and took them to the surface.

The story of the sinking has been made into several movies. The most popular film version is a 1997 film starring Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio called "Titanic". It won 11 Academy Awards, tying "Ben-Hur" for the record for the most Academy Awards won by one movie.

Other movie versions of the story include the 1958 film "A Night to Remember", the 1953 film "Titanic", the 1979 film "S.O.S. Titanic "and the 1996 movie "Titanic".

In the 1980 film Raise the Titanic, salvagers raise the shipwreck from the bottom of the ocean to the surface. However, this is impossible to do in reality. The Titanic broke in two, and the wreck is partially stuck in the bottom, buried under more than three feet (1 m) of mud in some spots. The ship has been on the ocean floor for more than 100 years, and would shatter into many more pieces if disturbed. Worms and other animals have eaten away much of the wood and many other parts.