Leopard

A leopard ("Panthera pardus") is a big feline of the genus "Panthera". It lives in Africa and Asia. 

Unlike lions, they do not live in groups. The adult males live separately, and the females live only with their cubs. They only come together to mate. They live in habitats where there are some trees. They climb trees well, and do so regularly. They can carry prey up a tree and keep it safe from hyaenas and lions. Trees are its main escape from attacks by lions or packs of dogs. It is an ambush predator, and operates best where it has some cover. 

The most similar cat in its lifestyle is the jaguar, which lives in Central and South America. 

Leopards generally have yellow fur with dark rosettes and spots, and a lighter colored underside. But there can be a lot of differences in the different leopard subspecies. There are also often leopards who are completely black, those are also called black panthers. Male leopards are about 30% larger than female leopards.

Originally the leopard lived in all of Africa (but not in the Sahara) and southern Asia. But today many leopard subspecies, especially in Asia, are endangered. Leopards live in a lot of different environments: rainforests, forests, mountains and savannas.

The leopard is mostly active at night. It is basically an ambush hunter. It can climb very well, and it stays up in trees a lot of its time. Leopards usually live alone and try not to meet another leopard. They only come together to mate. Young leopards leave their mothers after 13 – 18 months.

Leopards hunt at different times, and they also use different methods for hunting. Most often leopards will secretly move towards their prey and attack it when they are close, or hide and wait for it to come close. 

Leopards are versatile, opportunistic hunters, and have a very wide diet. They feed on a wider range of prey than other members of the "Panthera" genus. Their diet consists mostly of ungulates and primates (mainly monkeys). However, they also eat rodents, reptiles, amphibians, insects, birds (some ground-based types), fish and sometimes smaller predators (such as foxes, jackals, martens and smaller felids). In one instance, a leopard killed a sub-adult Nile crocodile that was crossing over land. Leopards are the only natural predators of adult chimpanzees and gorillas, though probably not the large male silverback gorillas. Leopards do not usually eat humans, but sometimes leopards that are hurt or sick can eat people when they do not have enough to eat. A leopard in India is believed to have eaten more than 125 people.

There are nine subspecies of leopards recognized today, one in Africa and eight in Asia. They are: