List of United States soccer teams





The professional division of U.S. Soccer has had three different first-division women's leagues. The first, the Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA), was founded in 2001, but folded due to large debts after the 2003 season. The second, Women's Professional Soccer (WPS), was effectively a successor to WUSA, although it did not begin until 2009. Like WUSA before it, WPS played three seasons, but also lost large amounts of money; it first decided not to play its planned 2012 season, and then completely folded in May of that year.

After WPS folded, the effective top level of women's soccer in the U.S. was WPSL Elite, a "semi-pro" league that had both professional and amateur teams. WPSL Elite was created by the Women's Premier Soccer League, one of two second-division women's leagues, as an outlet for former WPS teams, as well as WPSL teams that wanted to play professionally. WPSL Elite played in 2012 with eight teams; six were professional, and three once played in WPS. The other second-division league was the W-League, part of the United Soccer Leagues. WPSL Elite was planned as a temporary league before a possible return of WPS.

In late 2012, a totally new top-level league was created, known as the National Women's Soccer League (NWSL). It is run by U.S. Soccer and started play in 2013 with eight teams, four of which had been members of WPS. The league added teams in 2014 and 2016 to become a 10-team league, making it the first professional women's league in the U.S. to have more than eight teams and last more than three seasons. 

Operated from 2001–2003.

Operated from 2009–2011.


Operating since 2013.


"Indoor soccer" is a form of soccer played inside a building, sometimes called an arena, instead of in a stadium on a grass field. There is one league playing indoor soccer in North America, and that is the Major Arena Soccer League. The MASL is part of the USSF. It is also the only league in the United States to have a Mexican team.