Zachary Taylor

Zachary Taylor (November 24, 1784 – July 9, 1850) was the 12th President of the United States. He served as President from 1849 until his death in 1850. He was a second cousin to James Madison.

Taylor was a general in the United States Army. He led an army during the Mexican-American War. He was selected by the Whigs to be their candidate because he was a famous general. He was the last President to own slaves while in office.

During his term, slavery was a big issue because the Northerners wanted no slavery in the U.S. and wanted to stop newly formed states from allowing slavery. The southerners believed that they had the right to keep their slaves and people feared that they would choose to not be a part of the United States anymore (which they would eventually do in 1860).

Taylor did not like the idea of the southern states leaving the United States at all. He threatened to use military force against them if they were to do that.

Taylor never voted until he was 62 years old. He was never a resident of a particular location in the United States long enough to register to vote. 

Sixteen months into his presidency, Taylor died and his vice-president Millard Fillmore became president to take his place.

The Compromise of 1850 (a proposal several laws that would calm down the slavery issue by pleasing both the north and the south) was voted on in Congress shortly after his death. This was negotiated by Kentucky's Congressman, Henry Clay, who was a distant cousin of the Taylors and Lincolns.

Each year on President Taylor's birthday, an Honor Guard from Fort Knox, (Fort Knox, Kentucky) visits the Zachary Taylor National Cemetery (4701 Brownsboro Road Louisville, KY 40207) to lay a wreath at Taylor's tomb. The cemetery not only contains the Veterans, but the Taylor family has a "family cemetery" that is within official cemetery barrier walls, but it remains under the authority of the family and not under the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. More details about the national cemetery are on: http://www.cem.va.gov/cems/nchp/zacharytaylor.asp.

Richard Taylor was Zachary's father and his home remains in great condition currently. It is just west of the cemetery and within walking distance. The house is where Zachary lived during his youth and it is just off Blankenbaker Lane, which leads down the street to the distant cousins the Croghan and Clark families at "Locust Grove," where General George Rogers Clark lived.

Zachary Taylor was related to many other famous Kentuckians and prominent American leading families. He is related to the following US Presidents: James Madison, Abe Lincoln, Harry Truman, and Jerry Ford. Furthermore, he is related to U.S. Vice President John C. Breckinridge, 3-time U.S. Presidential Candidate Henry Clay "The Great Compromiser," to the first U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Marshall. Taylor is related to many of the founding families of Kentucky as the Taylors were early residents in Kentucky. Even Zachary's Secretary of Navy was a distant cousin, William Ballard Preston. Zachary's connection to Abe Lincoln is through Mary Todd Lincoln's side of the family. This is a short list of the famous cousins. At least 18-Kentucky Counties are named for Taylor's cousins. There were at least 11 Kentucky Governors, 9-Kentucky Secretaries of State, Ambassadors, and other political leaders.

Most history books and classes fail to teach that Zachary Taylor was a classmate of Jefferson Davis' at West Point Academy and that Davis married Taylor's daughter. This means that Zachary Taylor was the genealogical connection between CSA President Jefferson Davis and USA President Abe Lincoln. The American Civil War was lead on both the Union and Confederacy by the same family. Many of the Generals on both sides were genealogically related to Lincoln, Taylor, and Davis. It must be comprehended that these three leaders were all Kentuckians. The power of Kentucky over the American Civil War was vast!