Swaziland

Swaziland is a country in Africa. It is officially the Kingdom of Swaziland ("Umbuso weSwatini"), and sometimes called Ngwane or Swatini. Its capital is Mbabane. The country is named after the 19th-century king Mswati II.

Swaziland is a small country. It is no more than north to south and east to west. It is completely surrounded by land. Swaziland does not touch the sea. The two countries that touch it are Mozambique and South Africa. 

Swaziland is strongly affected by HIV and AIDS. The 2012 CIA World Factbook showed Swaziland with the highest HIV infection rate in the world. Life expectancy is 50 years.

Education in Swaziland is free at primary level, mainly 1st and 2nd grades. It is also free for orphaned and vulnerable children. Children are not required to attend. In 1996, the primary school enrollment rate was 90.8%. Girls and boys both attended at the primary level. In 1998, 80.5% of children reached grade five. 

The University of Swaziland provides higher education. 

Most of Swaziland's people are ethnically Swazi. There is also a small number of Zulu and White Africans, mostly people of British and Afrikaner descent. Swaziland also had Portuguese settlers and African refugees from Mozambique. 

82.70% of the people are Christian, Christianity in Swaziland is sometimes mixed with traditional beliefs and practices. Some people think of the king as having a spiritual role.

Swazi have been subsistence farmers and herders. They now mix such activities with work in the growing urban economy and in government. Some Swazi work in the mines in South Africa.

"SiSwati" and English are the official languages. SiSwati has 2.5 million speakers and is taught in schools. It is also one of the official languages of South Africa.

About 76,000 people in the country speak Zulu. Tsonga is spoken by about 19,000 people in Swaziland. Afrikaans is also spoken by some residents of Afrikaner descent.

Swaziland is divided into four districts:

The cities in Swaziland are: