Mötley Crüe

Mötley Crüe was a hair/glam metal band from Los Angeles, California. The band was created in 1981 by Nikki Sixx (bass), and Tommy Lee (drums), and were then joined by Vince Neil (vocals) and Mick Mars (lead guitar). They were popular in the mid-1980s. Their last show took place at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on December 31, 2015. 

Motley Crue was formed at the start of 1981 by bass player Nikki Sixx and drummer Tommy Lee. After auditions they found singer Vince Neil and guitar player Mick Mars. They released their first album Too Fast For Love in 1981, and later got signed to a major label. The band built success over the next few years with their next three albums, Shout at the Devil, Theatre of Pain and Girls, Girls, Girls, which had hit songs like "Shout at the Devil" "Home Sweet Home" and "Girls, Girls, Girls". However, the band created some negative attention because of their use of illegal drugs, large amounts of sex with women, and appearances, including make-up and several tattoos. Nikki Sixx took an overdose of heroin in 1987 and was legally dead for five minutes before getting an adrenaline shot, making him conscious again. The band stopped their drugs and drinking shortly after and released their most popular album, Dr. Feelgood in 1989. 

They released a greatest hits album in 1991 so fans had something to listen to before they brought out a sixth album. However, the band started arguing and Vince Neil was out of the band in 1992 as a result. So, the band found a new singer called John Corabi, who also played guitar and wrote lyrics with the band. They released their self titled album in 1994. It created a mixed response from fans who preferred Vince Neil as the band's singer, and did not like the music itself, which sounded less like glam rock and more like hard rock. John Corabi left in 1996 and Vince Neil came back. The band released Generation Swine in 1997, but created a mixed response due to the musical experiments on the album.

Tommy Lee was unhappy with Vince Neil back in the band and further arguments between band members caused Lee to leave the band, being replaced by Randy Castillo. The band released their least successful album, New Tattoo, in 2000. It sounded more like the band's 80s albums rather than the more experimental albums they released in the 90s. After the album, Randy Castillo became ill and Samantha Maloney had to drum during some of the band's concerts. Randy Castillo died in 2002 and the band did not do much for the next two years.

Motley Crue made a comeback with Tommy Lee in 2004, and were once again successful, touring worldwide and releasing another greatest hits album called Red, White and Crue. They released another album of new songs in 2008 called Saints of Los Angeles. They disbanded after their last show on December 31, 2015.