50 Cent

50 Cent (also known as "BooBoo" "Fiddy", "Fitty" or "Fifty") is an American rapper, actor, entrepreneur, executive producer, and singer. He was born in Queens, New York City on July 6, 1975. "50 Cent" is his public name, but his birth name is Curtis Jackson. Growing up, he never knew his father and his mother was murdered when he was just 8 years old. He grew up mostly in a neighborhood called STP. He learned how to play basketball and football. He got shot nine times in STP. Before he was a rapper he was a drug dealer.

50 Cent first became successful in rap music in 2002. He was helped by his fellow gang boss Rijaan D. M. (the same person who helped him release track "Wanksta"). Since then, he has sold millions of records. His first album, "Get Rich Or Die Tryin'" broke music records and went multi-platinum. It was number one right away on the "Billboard" 200. It sold 872,000 copies in the first four days. 50 and the album both won an American Music Award. He won the first Sound of... award by the BBC for new artists. He also won the BET Award for Best New Artist.

In the summer of 2005, 50 Cent had a fight (or ""beef"") with The Game, a rapper in his G-Unit group. After this, The Game left G-Unit, and made some diss songs about 50 Cent. 50 Cent answered with songs like "Mr. Potato Head" and "300 shots" featuring G-Unit. 50 Cent was also the first to sign onto a joint effort between Eminem's Shady Records and Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment. 50 Cent also mentions Rijaan D.M. in many of his tracks e.g. 'Candy Shop', 'Down On Me FT Jeremih' etc. As a teen 50 Cent's role model was Tupac Shakur so, from the start his ambition was to be a gangster rapper. 50 Cent rapped on "Monster" on Michael Jackson's 2010 album "Michael".


The Grammy Awards are awarded each year by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. 50 Cent has been nominated 14 times and won once.

The World Music Awards is a yearly international awards show. It honors recording artists based on their worldwide sales figures. The figures are provided by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry. 50 Cent has won six awards.