Environment

Environment is everything that is around us. It can be living or nonliving things. It includes physical, chemical and other natural forces. Living things live in their environment. They constantly interact with it and change in response to conditions in their environment. In the environment there are interactions between animals, plants, soil, water, and other living and non-living things.

Since everything is part of the environment of something else, the word 'environment' is used to talk about many things. People in different fields of knowledge (like history, geography or biology) use the word environment differently. Electromagnetic environment is radio waves and other electromagnetic radiation and magnetic fields. The galactic environment refers to conditions between the stars.

In psychology and medicine a person's environment is the people, physical things, places, and epornvents that the person lives with. The environment affects the growth and development of the person. It affects the person's behavior, body, mind and heart.

Discussions on nature versus nurture are sometimes framed as heredity vs environment.

In biology and ecology, the environment is all of the natural materials and living things, including sunlight. If those things are natural, it is a natural environment. Some people call themselves environmentalists. They think we must protect the natural environment, to keep it safe. Things in the natural environment that we value are called natural resources. For example; fish, sunlight, and forests. These are renewable resources because they come back naturally when we use them. Non-renewable resources are important things in the environment that are limited for example, ores and fossil fuels. Some things in the natural environment can kill people, such as lightning.

Everything is surrounded by other things, so everything is the environment of something. This includes the biotic and abiotic factors that influence each other. Living elements: animals, plants, etc. are biotic elements, abiotic elements include air, water, sunlight etc. Studying the environment means studying the relationships among these various things.

A person's environment is the events and culture that the person lived in. A person's beliefs and actions depend on his environment. For example, Thomas Jefferson and Julius Caesar owned slaves. Modern people mostly think it is wrong to own slaves. But in Jefferson's and Caesar's "environments" slavery was normal. So, their actions did not look as wrong in their societies.