Pig

Pigs are mammals in the genus Sus. They include the domestic pig and its ancestor, the common Eurasian wild boar ("Sus scrofa"), and other species. Pigs are in the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates. 

Related, but outside the genus, are the babirusa and the warthog. Pigs, like all suids, are native to the Old World. Juvenile pigs are known as piglets. Pigs are omnivores and are highly social and intelligent animals.

Domestic pigs are eaten as food called pork or bacon. The Jewish and Muslim religions, and some Christian denominations, believe eating pork is wrong. It is, however quite healthy food for humans. Pig farmers take care that the animals do not get diseases or parasites which might harm humans.

Domestic pigs are often pink, but small pigs kept as pets ("pot-bellied pigs") are often other colors. Pigs often roll in mud to protect themselves from sunlight. Many people think that pigs are dirty and smell. In fact, they roll around in the mud to keep bugs and ticks away from their skin. This also helps to keep their skin moist and lower their body temperature on hot days. They are omnivores, which means they eat anything that comes in their way. 

Pigs are intelligent animals. They can be taught to dance, hunt for truffles, race, pull carts and sniff out landmines. They can even be taught to play video games.

Pigs need a warm, clean area under a roof to sleep, and they should not be crowded. They need to be checked for sickness regularly. Stress can make them get sick with rabies more easily.

Pigs need lots of water. Over half their body weight is made up of water. Pigs should be given all the feed they will eat, which is usually 4 to 5 pounds a day for adult pigs. Corn is a good food for pigs, but they should also have protein supplements as well.

Pigs are often found on farms throughout the world and can be popular pets. A new breed of micro pigs has become very popular but often piglets are misold as micro pigs and then grow to be too big. In places pigs are mass farmed to produce the best animal for meat. These meat farms are often overcrowded with pigs and conditions are really bad.You can find pigs in farms. Some pigs are wild and some are live on a farm.