Winnipeg

Winnipege () is the capital city of Manitoba, Canada. Winnipeg is the largest city in Manitoba. It is in the eastern prairie region of western Canada. It is often called the "Gateway to the West". Winnipeg is the seventh biggest city in Canada with a population of 633,451 people.

The name "Winnipeg" comes from the Cree word for "muddy waters." Winnipeg is at the place where the Red River and Assiniboine river join. That area is known as "The Forks".

Winnipeg has four professional sports teams. The teams are the "Winnipeg Blue Bombers" who play football, the "Winnipeg Jets" who play hockey, the Winnipeg Goldeyes who play baseball and the Winnipeg Alliance FC who play soccer. Winnipeg has four universities: the University of Manitoba, the University of Winnipeg, Canadian Mennonite University and University of St. Boniface.

Winnipeg is in a very flat part of Canada. Winnipeg has four rivers in it. These rivers are the Red River, the Assiniboine River, the La Salle River, and the Seine River. Winnipeg has floods in spring a lot because it is in a very flat area that gets a lot of snow and rain. In winter, Winnipeg is cold and gets a lot of snow. The hottest day in Winnipeg was in the year 1936, when it was 42 degrees Celsius. The coldest day in Winnipeg was in the year 1879, when it was -47 degrees Celsius.

The area that we now call Winnipeg was used by First Nations people for many thousands of years before people from Europe arrived. First Nations people used this area a lot. This area was important because it is where two rivers meet. First Nations peoples often moved around using the rivers on canoes (a small boat that is powered by people with paddles).

The first person from Europe to come to this area was an officer from France in the year 1738. This area was first used as a permanent settlement (place where people live) by European people in the year 1812. Winnipeg was incorporated (officially made into a city) in the year 1873. Winnipeg became big because trains brought money and people from other places along the railroads. After World War I, Winnipeg stopped getting bigger for a long time. After World War II, Winnipeg has been getting bigger again. In the year 1972, Winnipeg got bigger by adding other small cities nearby into one big city, and the new big city was also named Winnipeg.

Winnipeg has a downtown area in the middle of the city. The downtown area has many tall buildings. Downtown is a place where there are a lot of offices and stores. All around Winnipeg's downtown are residential neighbourhoods (places where people live).

There is a big road that goes all the way around the city. This road is called the Perimeter Highway. The two best known roads in Winnipeg are called Portage Avenue and Main Street. The place where these two roads meet is in the middle of Winnipeg's downtown area. Main Street goes from the middle of the city to the northern part of the city. Portage Avenue goes from the middle of the city to the western part of the city.

The mayor of Winnipeg makes decisions about the city in City Hall. Winnipeg's mayor is a man named Brian Bowman. City Hall is in downtown Winnipeg.

The provincial premier is a person who makes decisions about Manitoba. Manitoba is the province that Winnipeg is in. Manitoba's provincial premier is Greg Selinger. The premier makes decisions at the legislative building.