Mulan (movie)

Mulan is a 1998 American animated movie produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation. It is the 36th movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. It is set in old-time China and based on local legend. The movie stars the voices of Ming-Na Wen and Eddie Murphy. "Mulan" was a success with its fans because it was different from Disney's other movies in terms of music and artistic design. The music was written by Jerry Goldsmith who also wrote the music for another animated movie, 1982's "The Secret of NIMH". Christina Aguilera sang "Reflections" for the movie's soundtrack.

A direct-to-video sequel, Pixar Short Films Collection Volume 2 "Mulan II", was released on February 1, 2005.

The story is about a girl called Mulan. An army of Huns from Mongolia, led by Shan Yu, attack China. The Chinese army must face them, and needs one man from every family to go to war. Mulan's father is willing to join, but he is old and has a limp, and it is clear that he cannot fight and will die in the war. Mulan is supposed to get married, but is so clumsy that she fails the test to prove she would be a good wife.When seeing the match-making mistress she fails to be elegant and ladylike. Mulan fears she has dishonoured her family, but now decides that she must save her father. Mulan decides to become a boy to bring "honor" to her family. She secretly takes her father's armour and weapon and leaves to report in the Chinese army.

Mushu is an old spirit guardian of the Fa family, who has lost his job and been turned into a dragon. The family ancestors want to send someone to watch over Mulan on her journey, and Mushu takes the job in order to restore his honour. He and the lucky cricket of the family catch up with Mulan, as she joins the small army led by Li Shang. Mulan pretends to be a man, called Ping. All the men in the new army need a lot of training, but after a while the soldiers must face the enemy.

The army meets the Huns in the snowy mountains. When the Chinese are attacked, Mulan uses a cannon to start an avalanche that covers all the Mongolians. Mulan is hurt by a sword, and the doctor who examines her finds that she is not a boy but a girl. Li Shang becomes angry and leaves Mulan alone in the mountains. The army then travels to the Emperor's palace in the Imperial City. As Mulan and her animals spend the night trying to light a fire, they witness some of the surviving enemies climbing from the snow, and they start moving towards the Emperor's city. Mulan decides to follow them and warn her friends in the army.

In the Imperial City the army is celebrated for winning the war, and no one will listen to Mulan's warnings, since she is a girl. Suddenly Shan Yu and his surviving men step forward, kidnap the emperor and hide in the palace. Mulan and her soldier friends dress up as palace women and manage to fool the attackers and move the emperor to safety. With her friends' help, Mulan destroys Shan Yu using a store of fireworks. The emperor rewards her for saving the country.

Mulan returns home with her imperial gifts to show her family. The honour of Mulan, of her family and also of the dragon is now restored. Shang is encouraged by the emperor to marry Mulan. He travels to her town, pays a visit and is invited to dinner by her family.