Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is the fourth book in the "Harry Potter" series by J. K. Rowling. It was published on 8 July 2000. It was made into a movie that came out in 2005.

In this book, Harry is chosen as one of the Hogwarts champions to compete in the Triwizard Tournament, a inter-school competition between Hogwarts, Durmstrang and Beauxbatons. Although each school is only supposed to have one champion, Harry is chosen to act as a second champion for Hogwarts along with Cedric Diggory.This makes Ron angry which causes a temporary fall out. The four school champions are tasked with completing a series of three challenges. These challenges include stealing a golden egg from a dragon, rescuing a friend from beneath the Black Lake and finding the Triwizard Cup from within a maze filled with dangerous magical creatures. When he touches the Triwizard Cup for the first time with Cedric Diggory he is whisked away to a cemetery. Harry then discovers that the cemetery is full of the Dark Lord's followers. Wormtail then kills Cedric and then puts the soul of the Dark Lord into a potion of regeneration. Then the Dark Lord rises again for the first time in thirteen years. He challenges Harry for a wizards duel but their wands connect and cause the Reverse Spell Effect. A ghostly Cedric appears form the Dark Lord's wand and asks Harry to return his body to his parents. Then Harry breaks the connection but the Dark Lord screams to his servants to stop Harry but later Harry escapes. Then he is greeted by the headmaster of the school and The Minister of Magic. Then Harry finds out that one of his school teachers, Alastor Moody, is actually a follower of the Dark Lord in disguise. He confesses to the headmaster under the influence of a truth potion. Later Harry was in the hospital wing when the Minister and Minerva Mcgonagall came in arguing. It then was known that the Minister had set a dementor on the disguised man. Then the headmaster started arguing that until he reviled that Harry had seen the Dark Lord return. But the minister refused to believe it and handed Harry his winnings. Later when they were going home one of Harry's friends told him that she had caught a journalist who told lies.