Gillian Anderson

Gillian Leigh Anderson OBE (born August 9, 1968) is an American-British film, television and theatre actress, activist and writer. Her credits include the roles of FBI Special Agent Dana Scully in the long-running and widely popular series "The X-Files", ill-fated socialite Lily Bart in Terence Davies' film "The House of Mirth" (2000), and DSI Stella Gibson on the BBC crime drama television series "The Fall". Among other honours, Anderson has won a Primetime Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.

After beginning her career on stage, Anderson achieved international recognition for her role as FBI Special Agent Dana Scully on the American sci-fi drama series "The X-Files" for all ten seasons (1993–2002, 2016). Her film work includes the dramas "The Mighty Celt" (2005), "The Last King of Scotland" (2006), "Shadow Dancer" (2012) and two "X-Files" films: "The X-Files: Fight the Future" (1998) and "The X-Files: I Want to Believe" (2008). Her other notable television credits include: portraying Lady Dedlock in the successful BBC production of Charles Dickens' "Bleak House", Wallis Simpson in "Any Human Heart", portraying Miss Havisham in "Great Expectations" (2011) and Dr. Bedelia Du Maurier on "Hannibal". In 2013, Anderson began starring as DSI Stella Gibson on the critically acclaimed BBC crime drama television series "The Fall". She has been serving as an executive producer from its second series. She will be appearing as goddess Media in the upcoming TV series "American Gods". Anderson is the co-writer of "The EarthEnd Saga" novel trilogy and the self-help guide book "WE: A Manifesto for Women Everywhere".

Aside from film and TV, Anderson has taken on the stage and has received both awards and critical acclaim. Her stage work includes "Absent Friends" (1991) – for which she won a Theatre World Award for Best Newcomer, "A Doll's House" (2009) – that earned her a Laurence Olivier Award nomination, and a portrayal of Blanche DuBois in "A Streetcar Named Desire" (2014, 2016) – for which she won the "Evening Standard" Theatre Award for Best Actress and received her second Laurence Olivier Award nomination for Best Actress.

Anderson has been active in supporting numerous charities and humanitarian organizations. She is an honorary spokesperson for the Neurofibromatosis (NF) Network and the co-founder of South African Youth Education for Sustainability (SAYes). Anderson was appointed an honorary Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 2016 for her services to drama.