The Graduate

The Graduate is a 1967 American movie based on a novel by Charles Webb, and directed by Mike Nichols. It is set in Southern California.

In the movie and book, a recent college graduate (played by Dustin Hoffman) is seduced by Mrs. Robinson (Anne Bancroft), the wife of his father's business partner. He later falls in love with their daughter Elaine (Katharine Ross).

The movie was Hoffman's first major role (it was his second role). He was nominated for an Academy Award for his performance.

The soundtrack album contained music by folk duo Simon and Garfunkel, and replaced The Beatles's "White Album" for the number one position (most sales) on the music charts.

Scenes from "The Graduate" have been well-remembered by many people, since it appeared. In one of them, one-word advice for corporate success ("Plastics") is given by a family friend of Benjamin's. (Reportedly, sales of stock in plastics companies jumped in the months after the movie appeared.) Another scene, where Ben tries to stop Elaine from marrying another man, has been imitated and parodied in television programs, including the cartoon series "Daria".

In 1998, a play based on the movie in London and on Broadway; its stars included Kathleen Turner, Alicia Silverstone and Morgan Fairchild.


Uncredited:
Anne Bancroft, Dustin Hoffman, and Katharine Ross earned Oscar nominations for their performances.

Along with the acting nominations, the movie received nominations for Best Cinematography, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Picture. Mike Nichols won the Academy Award for Best Director.

The movie won the BAFTA Award for Best Film, the BAFTA Award for Best Editing (to Sam O'Steen) and the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.

In 1996, "The Graduate" was picked to keep in the U.S. National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.

American Film Institute recognition

The movie is listed in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book.

Alfa Romeo made a "Graduate" edition Alfa Romeo Spider, the car Benjamin drives in the movie.