Basque language

Basque (in Basque: ') is the language spoken by the Basque people in the Basque Country and diaspora. The standard Basque name for the language is Euskara. Although it is surrounded by Indo-European languages, Basque is a language isolate. It is not related to the Indo-European languages. 

The ancestors of Basques are among the oldest residents of Europe, and their beginnings are unknown, as are the origins of Basque itself. Many scholars have tried to link Basque to Etruscan, African languages, Caucasian languages and so on, but most see Basque as a language isolate. 
A connection with the Iberian language gave some hope, but it is unclear whether similarities are due to genetic relations or mere vicinity.
It was spoken long before the Romans brought Latin to the Iberian Peninsula.

The region where Basque is spoken is smaller than what is known as the Basque Country, or "Euskal Herria" in Basque. Basque used to be spoken over a larger area, but Latin took over in some places.

Historically, Latin or Romance has been the official language.

Today Basque holds co-official language status in the Basque regions of Spain: the full autonomous community of the Basque Country and some parts of Navarre. Basque has no official standing in the Northern Basque Country of France and French citizens are barred from using Basque in a French court of law.

There are six main Basque dialects, comprising Biscayan, Guipuzcoan, and High Navarrese (in Spain), and Low Navarrese, Labourdin, and Souletin (in France). The dialect boundaries are not however congruent with political boundaries. 
One of the first scientific studies of Basque dialects, in particular the auxiliary verb forms, was made by Louis-Lucien Bonaparte (a nephew of Napoleon).

There is now a unified version of Euskara called Batua ("unified" in Basque), which is the language taught in schools. Batua is based largely on the Gipuzkoa regional dialect.

Basque is an ergative-absolutive language. It is very complicated, having many different cases for nouns.

The vowel system is the same as Spanish for most speakers. It consists of five pure vowels, . 

By contact with neighbouring peoples, Basque has borrowed words from Latin, Spanish, French, Gascon, among others, but accepted relatively few compared to many Indo-European languages. Some claim that many of its words come from Latin, but phonetic evolution has made many of them appear nowadays as if they were native words, e.g. "lore" ("flower", from "florem"), "errota" ("mill", from "rotam", "[mill] wheel"), "gela" ("room", from "cellam").

Basque is written using the Latin alphabet. The universal special letter is "ñ", which is pronounced like the "n" in "onion"; sometimes "ç" and "ü" are also used. Basque does not use "c, q, v, w, y" except for loan words; they are not considered part of the alphabet. The "X" is pronounced as a "sh", as in "shine".