Sikhism

Sikhism is a monotheistic religion, or a religion that believes in one God. The followers are called "Sikhs", and their holy book is the Guru Granth Sahib. 27 million people are followers of Sikhism, that makes it the ninth largest religion in the world. It is most popular in Asia. Sikhs are usually identified by the Turban that they wear, but not all wear turbans.

Sikhism was started around 1500 by Guru Nanak Dev, the first of the "Ten Gurus". It took on a distinct identity in 1699, celebrated by Vaisakhi. This is when Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth guru, started the baptism with Khande di Pahul, and the Sikhs were required to keep the 5 Ks. This is the Khalsa.

The holy book of Sikhism is the Guru Granth Sahib. "Granth" is a Hindi word, which means "book". It contains the writings of each of the ten gurus.


Sikhism teaches that God lasts forever, cannot be seen, and has no body. It is taught that he created the universe, can destroy it, and keeps it running. He is considered to be infinite, or he always existed and always will. Sikhs worship him, and meditate on his name through intense (passionate) repetition. They believe everything is a part of God and God is a part of everything. Good, bad, neutral are not applicable to God and for human beings, as Sikh philosophy indicates that human beings are born innately good.

Followers are all trying to reach salvation, meaning they are trying to break the process of rebirth and become one with God. The thing that is keeping people from reaching union is bad karma. Bad karma is taught to be caused by pride, anger, greed, attachment and lust. Sikhs try to stay away from these things. Sikhs also believe that a piece of god resides within everything in the world. Once an individual discovers the god within and stops searching else then can he reach salvation.

A Sikh temple is called a "Gurdwara" (meaning "the house of Guru"). It is the place of worship in the Sikh religion. Birth, death, baptism and marriage ceremonies are held in the temple. There are four doors which are called the door of peace, the door of livelihood, the door of learning and the door of grace. When a person enters the temple, their head must be covered. There are no chairs in the temple so people sit on the floor.

The temple is also a communal kitchen. The kitchen is where festival food is donated, prepared and cooked by two Sikh families. All the food that has been made there is shared with all the community who visit the temple on that day. The meal is vegetarian and is called the Langar.

The Golden Temple in Amritsar is the most visited temple in all of the Sikh faith. It is covered in gold.

Vaisakhi is an important festival celebrated by Sikhs.Vaisakhi is also known as Basaki. It is the harvest festival in the Punjab region. Vaisakhi is celebrated on the first day of the Basak month, in the Sikh calendar.

The term guru comes from the Sanskrit "gurū", which means teacher, guide, or mentor. The traditions and philosophy of Sikhism were made by ten gurus from 1469 to 1708. Each guru added to and reinforced the message taught by the previous one. This resulted in the creation of the Sikh religion.

And the eternal Guru is the Sri Guru Granth Sahib, which is a not just a book but contains the writings of each Guru.

In addition to the above, Sikhs also believe in fifteen "bhagats" or saints, including ones from other creeds, whose words and deeds have been adopted into Sikhism by the great ten Gurus. Most notable of these "bhagats" is the Punjabi Sufi saint, Hazrat Baba Farid.

The 5 Ks are the things Sikhs wear at all times. They are: