Republic of Macedonia

Republic of Macedonia (Macedonian: "Република Македонија" - "Republika Makedonija") is an independent state on the Balkan peninsula in Southeastern Europe. The country borders Serbia to the north, Albania to the west, Greece to the south, and Bulgaria to the east. The country's currency is the Macedonian Denar (MKD).

Greece and the Republic of Macedonia are arguing over the name Macedonia. United Nations calls the Republic of Macedonia, "the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" (FYROM) (Macedonian: "Поранешна Југословенска Република Македонија - ПЈРМ" - "Poranešna Jugoslovenska Republika Makedonija -PJRM"). The north and northeast part of Greece has been called Macedonia for ages and officially since 1912, just like the southeast county of England Kent has been called Kent for a long time. 'FYROM' is also used by the United Nations and NATO as well as many other international organisations. But, many countries now call the country 'Republic of Macedonia'. The United Kingdom, for example, uses Republic of Macedonia in the diplomatic list.
The capital is Skopje, with more than 500,000 residents. It has many smaller cities. Some important ones are Bitola, Prilep, Tetovo, Kumanovo, Ohrid, Veles, Stip, and Strumica.

The Republic of Macedonia is often called "a land of lakes and mountains". There are more than 50 large lakes and sixteen mountains higher than 2000 meters above sea level.

The country is a member of the United Nations and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Since December 2005, it is a candidate for joining the European Union. The Republic of Macedonia is also a partner and candidate member of NATO but Greece blocked Macedonia's entry into NATO until the name dispute between the two countries is solved.

The language spoken by the majority of the population is Macedonian. Albanian is also spoken by the Albanian minority (15%) living in the country.

What is now Macedonia used to be a state called Socialist Republic of Macedonia in the southern part of the country of Yugoslavia. When that country broke up in 1991, Macedonia became independent.
Over time the territory which today is the Republic of Macedonia was ruled by a many different states and former empire.

Republic of Macedonia is a democratic country with a parliament.