Poseidon

In Greek mythology, Poseidon was the god of the sea and one of the Twelve Olympians. He is the brother of Zeus, Hades, Hestia, Demeter and Hera. His home is Mount Olympus and all the water on earth. He is the god of the sea and earthquakes, the cyclops and of horses. The horse was a creature of enormous importance to the Indo-European migrants; it provided transport, food, clothing and was a visible symbol of fertility. 

He had many love affairs, although he was married to Amphitrite, a sea goddess, with whom he had a son, Triton, and possibly two daughters. In some stories, he is believed to have been eaten by his father Cronos. In other versions his mother Rhea saves him by feeding her husband a small horse wrapped in a blanket. When he was displeased, he would throw down his Trident and cause earthquakes. He was also called the "Sea Swimmer", the "Earth Shaker", and "Father of many heroes". He was very strong and masculine. Poseidon also was said to have created horses.

He was believed to be in a relationship with Medusa until Athena found them in her temple and turned Medusa into an ugly woman with snakes for hair and eyes that turn people to stone.

Poseidon’s father was the titan Kronos, his mother was Rhea. Poseidon was a brother of Zeus, the god of the heavens. When born, Poseidon was swallowed by his father (although some myths differ). Later when Zeus was saved by Rhea, Zeus tricked Kronos into regurgitating all his siblings. Poseidon shook the earth when he was angry with his powerful trident. Poseidon lived in two palaces; one underwater but in meetings with the other gods he would go to Mount Olympus. Poseidon was called the earth shaker as he could shake the earth. Though Poseidon was the god of the seas he could control the land too. That is why the sailors worshiped and prayed to him.

Poseidon was also the father of horses. It is believed that when riding his chariot (that was pulled by hippocampi) the sea foam turned into horses.

Poseidon was in love with Medusa, who was a beautiful woman. When Athena discovered them in her temple, she turned Medusa into a Gorgon-a terrible monster with snake hair and a stare that turned people into stone. Her two sisters were also punished, although neither of them were as powerful nor gruesome as Medusa.