Dog Day Afternoon

Dog Day Afternoon is a 1975 American crime drama movie set in New York City. It was directed by Sidney Lumet and written by Frank Pierson and based on an article from Life magazine. The stars of the movie are Al Pacino, John Cazale, Chris Sarandon, and Charles Durning. The story is about the robbery of a Brooklyn bank.

The "Life" article described Wojtowicz as "a dark, thin fellow with the broken-faced good looks of an Al Pacino or Dustin Hoffman". Hoffman was offered the role when Pacino briefly quit. An 18-year-old actor was originally to be cast in the role of Sal to match the age of the actual Salvatore. The table below shows the main cast of "Dog Day Afternoon".

The movie was based on the story of John Wojtowicz. It keeps the basic facts of what happened, according to the "Life" article "The Boys in the Bank". According to the article, Wojtowicz, along with Sal Naturile, held up a Chase Manhattan Bank branch in Brooklyn, New York on August 22, 1972.

After being arrested, Wojtowicz was convicted in court and sentenced to twenty years in prison. He served six years.

Wojtowicz wrote a letter to "The New York Times" in 1975. He said the movie was not completely true. He said the way his ex-wife was shown was not accurate. He also said there was not a talk with his mother. He did say Al Pacino and Chris Sarandon's portrayals of him and his boyfriend Ernest Aron were good. Also, Sal was 18 years old, but is played by a 39-year-old.

Wojtowicz died of cancer in January 2006.

"Dog Day Afternoon" won the Academy Award for Writing – Original Screenplay (Frank Pierson) and was nominated for other Oscars:
The movie was also nominated for the following seven Golden Globes, winning none:

The movie won other awards, including an NBR Award for Best Supporting Actor (Charles Durning) and a Writers Guild Award for Best Drama Written Directly for the Screen (Frank Pierson) as well as the British Academy Award for Best Actor (Al Pacino). It was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.

In 2009, it was named to the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.