Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace

Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace is a movie released in 1999. This movie is the fourth movie that director George Lucas made in the "Star Wars" series.


Two Jedi Knights, Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi, are sent on a mission by the Galactic Republic to engage in peace talks with the greedy Trade Federation of Neimoidia. They learn that the Neimoidians are sending a blockade to the planet of Naboo. In order to warn the people of Naboo, they transport themselves on Trade Federation battleships, after their ship was destroyed purposely. They reach the swamps of Naboo, separately. Qui-Gon Jinn meets Jar Jar Binks, and they find Obi-Wan. Qui-Gon Jinn asks Jar Jar to tell them of a safe place to hide from the attacking droids. Jar Jar takes them to Otoh Gunga, his birthplace, but Jar Jar was sent into exile from Otoh Gunga years ago. As such, when he returned, Boss Nass, the Gungan leader, ordered Jar Jar to be executed. Obi-Wan, following his master's instructions, rescues Jar Jar and flees to the city of Theed on a bongo, a water transport system. They find the Queen, Amidala, who escapes with them to the Republic, but in the blockade, their ship's engine was damaged. 

They barely had enough power to reach Tatooine, and still needed a new T-14 hyperdrive generator so as not to be stuck on the planet forever. They were not able to afford any, as the planet concentrates only on money, not galactic credits. Luckily, they met Anakin Skywalker, a young slave, who helped them gain the money by participating in a very dangerous podracing event. Finding abnormal midi-chlorians in the boy, Qui-Gon attempts to take Anakin as his Padawan, but was disallowed by the Jedi Council. On the other hand, war at Naboo breaks out and during the war, Qui-Gon, who faced a battle with a Sith apprentice named Darth Maul, died in the battle. Obi-Wan agrees to train Anakin as his Padawan. Anakin turns out to be a very successful padawan and later loses his mom.