Ganesha

Ganesha or (Ganesh) is the elephant-headed god in Hinduism. He is the son of Shiva and Parvati.

Ganesha is a very popular god of Hindus He's one of the most worshiped God in Hinduism .Hindu tradition states that Ganesha is a god of wisdom, success and good luck. He is also giver of different types of favors. The Hindu tradition calls Ganesha as the Vighneshvara. "Vighneshvara" in Sanskrit language means one who is the lord of obstacles or difficulties. Thus, the Hindu tradition states that by worshiping Ganesha, one can remove all obstacle and difficulties.

There are many temples (mandirs) of Ganesha, however in many Hindu temples there are statues and carvings. But, in most of the temples of Hindus, people worship Ganesha. Hindu Tradition gives Ganesha an important place. The tradition says that Hindus should worship their religious functions and ceremonies because he is the god of all obstacles. Generally, many Hindus also worship Ganesha before starting any new thing. Thus, for example, before occupying a new house, they may worship Ganesha. Likewise, before starting any new business, many Hindus may worship Ganesha for good luck.

There are two mythological stories about Ganesha.

A story says that Parvati had made a boy out of the dirt of her body, since she was cursed that she could not have a child again.The boy of dirt became alive. This boy was guarding the way while Parvati was taking a bath, as Parvati told the boy to guard the place and don't allow anyone to come in.Shiva wanted to meet his wife, Parvati. The boy did not allow him. Shiva became angry. He cut off the head of the boy. Then as Parvati came out and exclaimed that this was her son, and Shiva sent his men to look for a human head in the forest to replace Ganesha's. His men brought him a elephant head. Then, the head of an elephant was fixed to make the boy alive again. Therefore, Ganesha has a head of an elephant.

The other story is this. Parvati was very proud of her son Ganesha. She asked Shani (god of the planet Saturn) to look at her son. Shani looked at the face of Ganesha. Shani’s look burnt Ganesha’s face—he had the evil eye—and Ganesha became headless. Then Brahma (the creator god of Hindus) advised Parvati to fix Ganesha with the first head of anything she could find. Parvati found a head of an elephant. This head she fixed on the body of Ganesha. Thus, Ganesha got an elephant’s head.

Ganesha was having a race with his brother Kartikeya. The first one to go around the world would be the winner. Kartikeya raced off the next day, but Ganesha stayed and thought about how he could win. Eventually he sat on his mount, a rat, and went round his parents(who represent the whole world in Hindu scriptures) seven times. Thus, Ganesha was declared the winner due to his intelligence.

Any picture, image or portrayal in any form of Ganesha generally has the following characteristics or features:
He is often different in each picture, unlike most Hindu gods.

Ganesha has several other names. Some of his names are: