Kelly Clarkson

Kelly Brianne Clarkson (born April 24, 1982) is an American singer and actress. Clarkson won the first season of the television series "American Idol".

Clarkson has recorded four albums. Clarkson has sold over 10.6 million albums in the United States, becoming the highest-selling American Idol winner. According to Nielsen SoundScan, Clarkson is also ranked on the top 200 album sellers of the Nielsen SoundScan era at number 187.

Clarkson was born in Burleson, Texas. She is the third and youngest child of Jeanne Rose, a first grade teacher, and Stephen Michael Clarkson.

Clarkson's parents divorced when she was six years old, after having been married for seventeen years. The family then moved to Burleson, where her mother remarried. She is of Greek (from a maternal great-grandfather), English, Irish, German, and Scottish ancestry. Her mother is a descendant of Republican state senator Isaiah Rose, whose life story was discussed on Clarkson's episode of "Who Do You Think You Are?", in 2013.

Clarkson went to Pauline G Hughes Middle School and Burleson High School. She originally wanted to be a marine biologist, but changed her mind after she saw the movie "Jaws". In seventh grade, one of her teachers overheard her singing in a hallway and asked her to audition for the school choir.

In high school, Clarkson performed in musicals such as "Annie Get Your Gun", "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers" and "Brigadoon". She sang at her high school talent show, after which an audience member shared some inspiring words with her: "God has given you this gift. You've got to sing. You're destined to sing." Clarkson continued singing and soon started classical training, hoping that music would be her ticket to a college scholarship.

After finishing high school, Clarkson was offered full scholarships to The University of Texas at Austin, the University of North Texas, and the Berklee College of Music. However, she decided against college to pursue a career in music saying, "you're never too old to go to college."

On September 4, 2002, Clarkson won the first season of "American Idol", beating Justin Guarini by a margin of 58% to 42%. After the results were announced, Clarkson performed the song "A Moment Like This", which was written for the winner of "American Idol" and would be released on her first CD "Thankful". When it was released as a single in October of 2002, it set a record on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100 chart when it rose from number 52 to number one. "Thankful" sold 236,000 copies in its first week in the U.S.

On 19 November 2013, Clarkson said on her Twitter that she is pregnant.