Avignon

Avignon (; ) is a commune in southeastern France in the department of Vaucluse on the left bank of the Rhône river. It is the capital (prefecture) of the Vaucluse department.

The historical centre, which includes the Palais des Papes, the cathedral, and the Pont d'Avignon, became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1995. The medieval monuments and the annual Festival d'Avignon have helped to make the town a major centre for tourism

The earliest forms of the name were reported by the Greeks:


The Roman name "Avennĭo Cavarum" (Mela, II, 575, Pliny III, 36), i.e. "Avignon of Cavares" shows that Avignon was one of the three cities of the tribe of "Cavares", along with "Cavaillon" and "Orange".

Between 1309 and 1377, during the Avignon Papacy, seven successive popes lived in Avignon and in 1348 Pope Clement VI bought the town from Joanna I (; March 1328 – 27 July 1382) was Queen of Naples and Countess of Provence.

Papal control persisted until 1791 when, during the French Revolution, it became part of France.

Avignon is on the left bank of the Rhône river, a few kilometres above its confluence with the Durance, about southeast of Paris, south of Lyon and northwest of Marseille.

It has an area of and its average altitude is ; at the city hall, the altitude is .

On the west Avignon shares a border with the department of Gard and to the south it borders the department of Bouches-du-Rhône.

Avignon is surrounded by the "communes" Sorgues, Le Pontet, Vedène, Morières-lès-Avignon and Caumont-sur-Durance and the departments Bouches-du-Rhône ("communes" of Noves, Châteaurenard, Rognonas and Barbentane) and Gard ("communes" of Les Angles and Villeneuve-lès-Avignon).

The Rhône, the Durance (tributary of the Rhône]] and the L'Anguillon (tributary of the Durance) are the rivers flow through the "commune".

The Rhône passes the western edge of the city but is divided into two branches: the "Petit Rhône" for the part that passes next to Avignon, and the "Grand Rhône" for the western channel which passes Villeneuve-lès-Avignon in the Gard department. The two branches are separated by an island, the "Île de la Barthelasse".

The Durance flows along the southern boundary of the "commune" into the Rhône and marks the departmental boundary with Bouches-du-Rhône.

The climate of Avignon, in the Köppen climate classification, is Csa - Oceanic climate with hot summers.

The average temperature for the year in Avignon is . The warmest month, on average, is July with an average temperature of . The coolest month on average is January, with an average temperature of .

The average amount of precipitation for the year in Avignon is . The month with the most precipitation on average is October with of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is January with an average of .

The inhabitants of Avignon are known, in French, as "Avignonnais" (women: "Avignonnaises").

With a population of 92,209, Avignon has a population density of inhabitants/km.
Evolution of the population in Avignon

Avignon is the prefecture of the Vaucluse department since 1793. It is also the capital of the "arrondissement" of Avignon and the administrative centre () of three cantons, all formed with part of the commune: 

It is part of the intercommunality "Grand Avignon" ().

Avignon is twinned with:

Some interesting places in Avignon are: