Lego

Lego, also called LEGO, is a type of building toy created and made by the Lego Group, a company in Denmark. "Lego Bricks" are colorful plastic building blocks that can be joined together easily to make a tower and more . Lego bricks are joined together by studs on the top, and holes in the bottom of the brick commonly known as the stud-and-tube connection. LEGO is the most popular building toy in the world.

The Lego company was started by Ole Kirk Christiansen a Danish toy maker in 1935. Christiansen made wooden toys for children. He made and sold his first plastic Lego sets in the 1940s. Since then, Lego toys have become very popular and are known and loved by people around the world kids and adults alike.

Lego bricks come in many shapes ,sizes and colours There are wheels, car screens, and plants. Lego bricks can be joined together in many ways. Vehicles, buildings and even robots can all be built with Lego bricks.

Almost all the bricks from Lego sets can fit together. New bricks made today can fit with old bricks made years ago. The bricks can join together no matter which set they come from. Lego has become so popular that people sometimes use the word "Lego" to talk about any sort of building blocks. There are millions of LEGO fans and conventions around the world

Many LEGO video games are being created for different video game systems. LEGO video games usually come from LEGO themes, such as LEGO Star Wars and Lego Indiana Jones. Lego Star Wars is a famous theme and it has three video games. A new game Harry Potter is a video game which came out before the new Harry Potter theme but made after the old Harry Potter. LEGO Star Wars 1 and 2 are some of the best selling video games and are about to get a new version of LEGO Star Wars, LEGO Star Wars 3: The Clone Wars.

In LEGO Clone Wars, you can play as most of your favorite characters, like Rex, Yoda, Cody, and a lot of others. Also, you can face fearsome monsters like the Rancor.The newest game from LEGO is LEGO Universe, a massively multi-player online game. new games for the movie will be loaded with legos. 

There has been a Lego game that is very popular Lego Dimensions. The starter pack is expensive but the game is very popular. The fun packs are the cheapest pack to extend the game. The level and team packs are the expensive packs.The first ever lego video game was published in 2001 

A Lego Cartoon Network show "" was aired from 2011 until the show's end in 2012. A second Cartoon Network Lego show aired in 2013. A 2014 Lego movie ("The Lego Movie") stars Chris Pratt, Will Arnett, Elizabeth Banks, Morgan Freeman, Will Ferrell, and Liam Neeson. The movie was released on February 7, 2014.