Fuhua Secondary School

Fuhua Secondary School is a school in Jurong West, Singapore. It started in 2000 and the founding principal was Ong Kian Choon from Chung Cheng High(Branch). Oen Siew Yock took over as principal in 2005 when Ong transferred to Nan Chiau High School. The Vice Principal is Ronald Lu Jing Yuan.

Fuhua has 4 core values:

Although Fuhua's history is short, unlike other established schools, Fuhua has won many awards since its start.

The school is most famous for its robotics team, known as Fubotics. Students have gone on to South Korea representing Singapore in a robotics meet in 2003.

It has also represented Singapore in the World Robot Olympiad numerous times: 2005 (Bangkok, Thailand), 2006 (Nanning, China), 2007 (Taipei, Taiwan), 2008 (Yokohama, Japan), 2009 (Pohang, South Korea), 2011 (Abu Dhabi, UAE), 2012 (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia), 2013 (Jakarta, Indonesia), 2015 (Doha, Qatar), 2016 (New Delhi, India).

Many of its performing arts groups clinched an Singapore Youth Festival (SYF) Silver award in the second time they took part in the SYF competition.

Fuhua's NCC (Land) Unit have also achieved outstanding performance in the Best Unit Competition 2004/05. They have clinched the Gold award and hopes to maintain it in 2006.

Fuhua's NPCC Unit have clinched a Silver Award for the year 2005. An improvement from the previous, clinching a bronze in 2004. 

Every year, the NCC would organise its annual shooting competition. For the year 2004, a team comprising of 5 shooters from then Part C(Sec 3) have shot their way to being the 1st in the West District and 6th in the national. For the year 2005, the shooters have achieved 4th in the nation and Part A Jia Hao ranked 4th in the individual IMT shoot.

Fuhua's uniform is similar to that of Chung Cheng High School. It is an all-white Uniform. There are shoulder lapels on the shirt/blouse. It is secured by metal epaulettes. The shirt/blouse has chest pockets and metal epaulettes are also placed on the pockets. Upper Secondary male students wear long pants instead. 

Its attire for physical education (PE) compromises of a red attire. The school crest is placed on the left chest. The word "Fuhua" spreads from the right to the left at the front. At the back of the PE T-shirt, "Fuhua Secondary" is slightly curved and spans from the left to the right.

The school blazer is bright red in colour. Students have to wear their tie with the blazer. The tie is blue in colour with yellow diagonal stripes. The word "fuhua" is placed on top of these stripes.

The school has co-curricular activities
A drama was filmed in 2005. Called "Subject to Change", it was directed by Jason Ye. There was another film, a documentary on cosplay. This documentary won the Silver award, an improvement compared to the previous year's documentary on Pets, which bagged the Bronze award.

The school holds its speech day every year in March or April. In 2006, the school held its Speech Day in the morning, unlike the previous year, which held its Speech Day at night. This was because the school had organised its bi-annual cultural night.
In 2006, Fuhua started aesthetics education lessons.

The school has an air rifle range and an aesthetics room, where NCC Cadets can practice drumming.
The aesthetics room was officially opened on 31 March 2006 by the school's Advisory Committee Member, Mr Yip Mein Hui. The opening coincided ith the school's Speech Day.