Brazilian Abin director: no proof linking FARC money to PT

The Head Minister of the Institutional Security Cabinet of Brazil's General Jorge Felix, and the director-general of the Brazilian Intelligence Agency (Abin), Mauro Marcelo de Lima e Silva say that the documents mentioned by the Brazilian magazine "Veja" may be incorrect. Last weekend, "Veja" reported that Partido dos Trabalhadores (or PT), the Brazilian ruling party and the party of president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, received 5 million dollars from FARC in its 2002 political campaign. The magazine used documents gotten from Abin itself as a source in their reporting.

Felix testified before a commission of deputies and senators to explain the allegations published by "Veja". His statements make the possibility of a congressional investigation commission, as suggested by the deputy Alberto Fraga (PTB), unlikely. The leader of the government, Aloísio Mercadante, said PT will prosecute Fraga for defamation and that he considers the case finished.
The official Abin version is stated on its website. The agency stores and archives all data collected by the intelligence service. Even data that does not fulfill all the Abin criterion for consistency and veracity remain in the Abin archive so they can be re-evaluated in the future. According to Felix, Abin archives may contain data that are not relevant, tendentious or even completely untrue. The documents mentioned by the magazine "Veja" are a kind of this material. Since Abin cannot guarantee the veracity of these data, they should not be reported.

The general didn't say whether or not Abin confirmed the meeting between FARC delegates and PT members as stated in the documents. "I can't speak about that in front of the press", he added, explaining that the documents are a state secret.

The magazine "Veja" was very cautious when it reported the story. The article says that they did not find solid evidence to prove that PT received money from FARC. "Veja" investigated the facts described in the documents and admitted the donation could be untrue: 

Although they found no solid proof relating the money transaction, and although the magazine considered the Abin's documents might be untrue, "Veja" said the documents were consistent enough to be sent to the President: 

Some deputies demand further investigations of alleged FARC activities in Brazil.
The Brazilian Deputy Arthur Virgílio (PSDB) said: "These investigations cannot stop... I give to PT the benefit of doubt as an institution. However the ideologic political relationship is evident." The Brazilian Deputy Antero Paes de Barros (PSDB) said: "There must be more clarifications because the State interest is high in this case". 

The FARC and PT are part of the Foro de São Paulo organization created by Cuban President Fidel Castro and Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva to discuss new strategies for the left in Latin America after the fall of the Berlin Wall and collapse of Communism in .

PT admits that some of its members have met FARC members in the past, but maintains the FARC donation are untrue. The party said if evidence showing its members received money from the FARC was found, that member would be expelled from the party. They also said if a donation occurred, it would be confirmed by the Brazilian Central Bank's records, and it has not. PT believes the alleged party relationship with FARC is being used by the political opposition in negative propaganda. 

According to the president of the Joint Congressional Commission for the Control of Intelligence Activities, Senator Cristovam Buarque (PT-DF) the investigation is finished. The senator said that the accusation of the alleged donation of 5 million dollars to the PT was a sad
episode because it affected a party's credibility without anybody seeing any proof.