2007 Rugby World Cup: New Zealand, Australia and England open with wins

New Zealand, Australia and England started their 2007 Rugby World Cup campaigns today with victories over Italy, Japan and the United States respectively. Australia and tournament favorites New Zealand comprehensively defeated their opposition, while defending champions England produced a comparatively unimpressive display to overcome the American team.

Tournament favourites New Zealand dominated their opening match against Italy. Richie McCaw opened the scoring after just 64 
seconds and scored again in the seventh minutes. Tries from Doug Howlett, Mils Muliaina and two from 
Sitiveni Sivivatu increased the All Black's imposing lead. Just before half time, Marko Stanojevic scored 
a try for Italy taking the score to 43-7.

After the interval New Zealand scored five more tries, two each from Howlett and Jerry Collins and one from 
Chris Jack, with All Blacks fly half Daniel Carter kicking seventeen points during the match. In the 71st minute, 
Mirco Bergamasco scored a consolation try for Italy.

Australia scored thirteen tries against Japan in their opening match. A try from Nathan Sharpe and a hat-trick from Rocky Elsom put the Wallabies ahead by 23-3 at half time. Australia overwhelmed Japan in the second half, scoring nine tries without reply. Chris Latham, Berrick Barnes and Drew Mitchell claimed two tries each, and Adam Ashley-Cooper, George Smith and Adam Frier completed Australia's victory.

Japan's only points came from a Kōsei Ono penalty just before half time, while Stirling Mortlock kicked 27 points for Australia.

In contrast to the day's earlier matches, the England team overcame the United States by only eighteen points. After 31 minutes the score was 9-3 with all points coming from penalties. However Jason Robinson and Olly Barkley scored tries late in the first half for England, with the score 21-3 at half time. Nine minutes after the interval Tom Rees scored England's third try, but they were not able to score again. Matekitonga Moeakiola scored for the Americans in the 74th minute.