2007 Rugby World Cup: South Africa, Wales, Scotland and Ireland win

In the pool stage of the 2007 Rugby World Cup, eight teams played their first matches of the tournament. Wales came from behind to defeat Canada after a first half scare. South Africa comfortably defeated Samoa, while Ireland beat Namibia and Scotland beat world cup debutants Portugal.

In Pool B, Wales took an early lead against Canada with three penalties from James Hook. However Wales struggled throughout the first half, and tries from Canadians Jamie Cudmore, Craig Culpan and Morgan Williams meant that Canada led 17-9 early in the second half.

Wales improved in the last half hour of the match. Tries from Alun Wyn Jones, Colin Charvis and a double from Shane Williams regained the lead for Wales.

In a very physical encounter in Pool A, South Africa comfortably defeated . The South Africans led 9-0 after fifteen minutes with Percy Montgomery kicking three penalties. Samoa scored their only points of the match soon afterwards when Gavin Williams scored and converted a try. 

South Africa led 21-7 at half time after tries from Bryan Habana and Percy Montgomery. They controlled the second half, and tries from Jaque Fourie, J P Pietersen, a second from Percy Montgomery and a second half hat-trick from Bryan Habana completed South Africa's victory.

Portugal, making their first ever appearance in the world cup, faced Scotland in Pool C. Rory Lamont scored two quick tries for Scotland followed by a try from Scott Lawson to give Scotland a 21-0 lead. Pedro Carvalho scored Portugal's first world cup try, and Duarte Cardoso Pinto converted as well as scoring a penalty. However Scotland were too strong and Rob Dewey, Kelly Brown, Dan Parks, Hugo Southwell and Ross Ford all scored tries for Scotland. Dan Parks scored 15 points from his try and five conversions.

Pool D saw Ireland take on Namibia. Despite a messy performance from Ireland, they led at half time thanks to tries from Brian O'Driscoll, Andrew Trimble and Simon Easterby. Early in the second half, Ireland were awarded a penalty try when two scrums collapsed, but Namibia responded with tries from Jacques Nieuwenhuis and Piet van Zyl. Towards the end of the match Jerry Flannery scored Ireland's fifth try to secure the win.