I recently ordered my 8th Kindle. It was to replace my 7th Kindle which I unknowingly crushed. I love the Kindle Keyboard as my clumsy old hands tremble too much to type on a touch screen. For me, newer is just more frustrating. However, new Keyboard Kindles are scarce on the ground, so I got a reconditioned one. I noticed on my account page that Amazon recognized my new Kindle as soon as I bought it. When it arrived, however, it was not registered to me and it claimed it could not connect to my home WiFi. So I called my internet provider. I waded through that companys automated menu beginning with press 1 for English. That irritates me as I think English should be the default language in this country. But pressing on, I provided my 9 digit phone number, my 10 digit account number, my 9 digit zip code, my address, my 8 digit birthday, and the name of my favorite pet, my first car and my oldest nephew. Then I listened to an automated menu that had a 9 item selection none of which exactly fitted the problem I was having. After all this, I was asked if I would provide feedback after the call. I know this company and I was sure I would have comments to make, so I pressed 1 for yes. Then instead of finally letting me speak to a person, the automated voice directed me back through the forest of numbers I had already provided. Patiently I retyped all I had already typed. This time I was cannier. I refused the opportunity to give feedback and was finally connected to a person a person with a strong foreign accent and a bad phone connection. Didnt I press 1 for English After struggling for several minutes I begged for a supervisor as I could not understand the English spoken by this person. I was eventually routed to three other people with a hold time between each new connection as each person I spoke to did not handle my problem. I asked for phone numbers every time so I could reconnect if my call was disconnected accidentally. Finally I found a person who could help and did indeed get a connection established between my Kindle and my WiFi. I again asked for a telephone number in case I had further problems. Im sorry. I do not have a phone number that you can call to connect directly to me. Well, I should have known. I had been on the phone for 50 minutes.Then my Kindle would not download my archived items. So I contacted Amazons Help Line. I got an American in the first minute. I did not have to press anything I explained my problem. The Amazon American fiddled with a few buttons on his end and my Kindle began working correctly. I was on the phone for 4 minutes.