A powerful new streaming box that challenges the competitionPros:-- Sleek, thin, good looking and powerful hardware - fastest box available currently-- Good video and sound output (HDMI, Optical Audio out)-- Fast, responsive UI and streaming - good hardware/firmware, ASAP feature works well-- Nice remote with novel Voice Search feature (works very well)-- Gaming controller and internal GPU (Graphics Processing Unit)-- Games are fun on the Fire TV, graphics are surprisingly good-- Decent array of apps at launch, tons of content available-- Quiet, cool operation, super easy set-up and easy to use-- Good support for local networked content via Plex Media Server and apps-- Potentially great gaming with some good titles available now (Asphalt 8, Riptide GP2, Sev Zero)Cons:-- No SD card slot or other local storage expansion-- USB port not functional Some reports say a USB keyboard will work, have not tried it yet.-- Voice Search only for Amazon content currently-- Some apps (HBOGO, RDIO, etc.) not yet available-- No HDMI or Audio cables included-- No easy way to search free Prime Video content only (mixed in with pay to view)-- Could use a head-phone jack and/or std. audio out as well as opticalWith a 1.7 GHz quad-core CPU, 2 GB of RAM, a GPU and 8 GB internal storage, the Fire TV represents a big leap forward in power for a streaming set-top box. Add in dual-band wifi, ethernet, and Bluetooth support as well as a USB 2.0 port (not useful at present), HDMI, and optical audio out and you have a sleek and capable hardware unit, though missing a few nice things like an SD-card slot(Amazon wants you to use the cloud or networked storage). The power and memory at hand here promise a fast, smooth user experience and the Fire does seem to deliver that based on my initial use. With these specs, this is the fastest box out there, currently.This is also a box that is somewhat serious about gaming support as it has an internal/onboard GPU and an available controller. Many game developers seem excited about the prospects (and market) this device represents. (Currently, you get a free game and 1000 Amazon coins for each controller you purchase.) *** Update, I have tried several games and they are great fun. Graphics are surprisingly good, controls smooth, really pretty impressive for this type of system. ***With 1080p streaming and Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 Surround Sound the picture and sound is great. It runs Android (basically 4.4.2 KitKat) so lots of apps should be available right out of the gate with lots more to follow.Some people are grousing about the 99 price, but I do not feel it is out of line at all, and indeed, it seems like a bargain compared to the competition's hardware capabilities to me. You get a decent amount of performance hardware for your money, so I think it's fine (and I'm sure there will be specials later for those who can wait). I could not wait myself and ordered one immediately. I like the Roku (I own several), but this was too tempting to a geek like me.Clearly, the Fire TV aims to challenge the other contenders such as Apply TV, Roku, and Chromecast. Each has their strengths and weaknesses, but the Fire TV seems like it will appeal to many. You might not be too tempted if you already have a Roku 3, but if you are a resident of the Amazon ecosystem, you may find the Fire a great asset. Those new to the game will find it worthy of consideration.There are still a few rough edges as with any new product, but none that seem too significant to me. Most will probably be addressed in short order, but the main thing is that there's plenty out of the box that Amazon got right and the Fire delivers a great experience. Set-up is very easy and straight-forward.The Bluetooth remote is a nice touch, for example, and the voice search is promising. While it currently seems limited to Amazon content, hopefully this will expand at some point. Even so, it's fun to use.Streaming seems to be smooth and glitch free in my tests so far(mostly with Amazon Prime Instant and Netflix). I will do more testing and update this review as I learn more. Load times are generally very fast, sometimes almost instantaneous, and the Fire TV is quite responsive. Video quality is very good.The menu is decent enough, similar to Roku and others. It is a bit Amazon-centric as you might expect. Hopefully future updates will allow one to customize it a bit more. But simple and sweet is what most people want and that's what you get here. Your Amazon video library and watch lists are available, of course.A lot of my favorites like Prime Instant, Netflix, Pandora, iHeartRadio, and so on are here. (Rdio is missing and I hope it gets added soon.) I'm sure all the main ones will get on board, it's just too big a market to ignore.I have not had time to set-up Plex yet, but that promises to be a great feature for sharing photos, music, and videos from other devices, including a PC, laptop, or tablet. I have Plex in the past and it generally worked very well. I will be very interested to see how it goes with the Fire TV (and will update here).Amazon seems to have taken particular care to address the buffering issues sometimes experienced with devices of this type and I have not seen any such issues, so far, at all. NiceMore to come as I have more time and experience with this device. Giving it a solid 4 stars for now pending further time with it. I really like the Fire TV and likely will upgrade to 5 stars if no glitches turn up. *** Upgraded to 5 stars *** Everything working well, gaming is a lot of fun, gfx better than expected. Everything loads faster than any other system I have used (Sony, Netgear, Roku, etc.). Everything looks great. I feel like the value is there, especially if you are already in the Amazon ecosystem. (But non-Amazon stuff like the Netflix app also work well.)I hooked my Amazon Fire TV up my Epson projector and gamed big and it was a blast. Prime Instant Vids and Netflix looked great as well. The fast, responsive interface and overall snappy performance make for a great experience.Gaming:I got RipTide GP2 for the Amazon Fire TV. Still waiting for my game controller, so played using only the Fire TV remote, but even so it was a lot of fun (especially big screen using my projector). Reminds me of PlayStation games (a good thing). The graphics are darn good, better than I expected, and the game is a lot of fun and fairly easy to pickup and play. The game controls work well, even using just the remote. This is the first game I've tried on the Fire TV and I was very surprised and pleased with the quality. Definitely worth a try if you like racing games.*** Update - got my controller - works well - Asphalt 8, Riptide GP2, and Sev Zero all look great and play great. Very impressive I think the Fire TV is going to surprise a lot of people in the area of gaming. ***Tip: In Parental Controls, you can set up a PIN (or use your existing one) and enable pin protected purchasing so that a PIN is required for any purchase made via the Fire TV. Although meant primarily to prevent kids from purchasing without a parent's approval, it's can also serve to prevent accidental 'one-click' purchases of your own.-----Note: If you're interested in more details, you can find PDF's of the User Guide, Quick Start, Controller Manuals and so on here: www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.htmlnodeId201348270