I purchase almost everything with the exception of food from Amazon. I have been a prime member since the inception of the program. Without exception, I have always received EXCELLENT customer service. Until now. I'm having difficulty with my Fire TV connecting to my wifi. Last Saturday I spent approximately 1- hours (maybe 2) troubleshooting with two women techs on the phone. Mary (who I was passed to from the first tech because of her expertise) said she thought it wasn't just a problem unique to me and asked me if she could call me back on Sunday after researching the problem. I had no problem with that. No call on Sunday so I called on Monday. Much to my surprise, there was no record of my call attached to my file. The rep was confused as to whether I was talking about fire wire or Fire TV so I was first sent to a different department. Finally, I got through that fire wire was not the same as Fire TV and I was transferred back to digital. We went through the same troubleshooting taking up a lot of my time. I was willing to do it until we were going around in circles and my phone was running out of juice. The gentleman asked me if he could research and call me later in the day. NO CALL. It's Tuesday--still no call.It really pains me to have to say anything negative about Amazon's Customer Service as it has NEVER BEEN LESS THAN EXCELLENT IN THE PAST. I've noticed I haven't gotten a survey as I usually do after a customer service call. Whoever Amazon has farmed out their digital customer service to will ruin their excellent customer service reputation and they will lose sales because of it. I'm going to wager a bet that there is no record of the 3-4 hours of my time on the phone trying to solve a problem and no record of two promises to call me back. I would have had more respect for these reps if I had received a call saying they were sorry, but they weren't able to come up with a solution for me.I'm hoping Amazon has kept a record of my past reviews and will review my account and see just how much I've spent over the years as a loyal customer. I'm very disappointed that I had to write this review, and I'm hoping someone who can change things reads this and saves Amazon's reputation. I can't be the only one receiving this kind of treatment. It's obvious that the people who are techs for Fire TV are not the same techs that I've dealt with in the past. In fact, I don't think they are even in the same country. What a pity.