When my new Fire TV arrived today, I was cautiously optimistic. We have two Kindle Fires in the house, a 1st Gen and the previous Gen, and we love them. So here is my initial thoughts, I will update this review as time goes by.First impressions, as always Amazon does a great job on the packaging, and this box is actually a little more elegant than when we ordered our fist e-reader way back when. But it carries the glossy black look they used in the past now for the Fire tablets. The box was easy open and the device neatly tucked inside.Hook up was as easy as it gets, and connecting to my Wifi wasn't a problem. It did need a software update out of the box, which these days isnt uncommon. The problem here was I was already seeing an issue. It kept telling me my connection seemed slower than usually I needed to check it. Having the robust network we must have for a house full of online gamers I knew there could only be a couple of problems. My other devices were working fine on the network, but to alleviate any strain on it i disconnected them all and reset my connection at the modem and router. The download resumed, but still with the same message at the bottom. After about 30 or 45 minutes I finally got the introduction video.So, off and running, I go the app store to spend the coins I got for purchasing the additional controller, see this reveiw, http://www.amazon.com/review/RGDZLYOUBIDI6/refcmcrrdpperm . While trying to download a handful of games, which it ques nicely to keep from over working its self, I ran into these problems. - the interface was slow load images for the apps I was looking at, and somtimes refused to populate the list I was trying to view - it also would randomly disconnect from the network. This points to a connection issue that i stated earlier. But now I am convinced it is the Wifi radio in the device. I have had gaming systems and streaming devices in this room before and never experienced this issue. This could also be what was causing the previously stated issue with the menus. - there is no way to force sleep the unit or turn it off.So, I proceed to call tech support. The guy on the phone was really nice and tried to be helpful, but he had no training on the device other than what little he had played around with his. He says, the device will eventually go to sleep, but isnt sure of how long it will take. As far as the wifi goes he suggested doing everything I had already done, except for unpluggin the device for about 3 seconds or so. So I try this, he has me stream something from Prime, which works great, but as soon as i start to download something again, the connection is lost. The phone call ends up being a waste of time. At this point I am disappointed. I know this is a new device and will have issues, but the Wifi this is proven tech it should work.Pros:Beautiful minimalist designease of setupsmall foot printgames look great, once you get them to workCons:Customer service wasn't trained on trouble shootingWifi connectivity sporadicNo way to force sleep or power down deviceIn the end, it could be a great product. I am going to give it some time and see if another software update might be on the way, or if maybe something was wrong with my network yesterday. I will update soon.**********Update 04/07/14:After a full weekend of putting the Fire TV through the paces I have updated my initial 2 star rating to a four. Here are the reasons why.The network issue appears to be just that, a network issue. Whether it was on my end or because of it being the first full day of release I do not know. But I did not have the connection issue again all weekend. Seeing as this was the biggest reason for my 2 star rating, I have changed that.As far as the auto sleep mode, for those that like to be able to control when something is on, sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. The Fire is very fickle about this. But as someone pointed out in the comments and I do agree with them, it is a very minimal power draw and as along as you don't leave your TV on it shouldn't affect anything.The few games I played were good as far as casual gaming goes. No buggy or jerky movements. But you must remember, this is for casual gaming. You are not going to console quality out of this.Hope this all helps.