It was time for me to upgrade my Roku 2XS and after looking at the Roku 3 and the Amazon Fire TV I decided to go with the Fire TV. I don't use a lot of the private channels on Roku and the only thing I saw missing that I have on Roku is Spotify and I'll work around that. The main reason I decide to go for the Fire TV over the Roku was the gaming feature. I'm not a heavy gamer but having a device that allowed me to play games with a real game pad for only 99 sounded appealing. I'll break my review into sections so others can quick reference it. I'll say now this got 2 stars because it is FAST and because, if you don't mind getting Amazon VOD stuffed down your throat there is some good content.- SETUPInitial boot up was easy, plug in and go and it autoplays a simple intro video. However, I immediately had issues setting up both Plex and Netflix, Netflix still will not work. I get what looks like computer code with the message error forwarding request to origin On Plex and Hulu+ there is a high pitched, metallic echo with all audio and on Hulu+ I occasionally get a pink/lavender screen with audio but no video. Some internet searching suggested this had to do with a handshake issue and that rebooting should fix it, it didn't. However when I plugged my old Roku back in it worked fine.- NAVIGATION and SEARCH (text and voice)The Fire TV is very, very, very Amazon VOD centered. Most of your navigation data from the main menu pushes you to Amazon movies, TV or apps/games. All other channels reside under the Apps column. As far as I can tell, the voice search only searches Amazon content. This really bothers me as none of the videos, web ads, write ups, etc. mentions this. They brag how they have all your favorite content from Hulu+, Netflix, Crackle, Plex but fail to mention that you cannot search those other apps/channels. BIG turn-off for me. Once inside the other channels navigating and searching works just like the Roku... clicking around with the little remote. The more I think about it the more it annoys me because Amazon advertising made such a big deal out of the voice search and how no one liked clicking around with the remote.- WATCHING TV/MOVIESDon't know. My audio was too awful to watch anything. Never made it to a single show. I tried changing the settings but that didn't do any good. EVERY program has a high-pitched echo on it. However it doesn't have the audio issues when playing games so no idea what the issue is.- PLAYING GAMESTBD. I've played a couple games of Asphalt 8 with the remote and it was pretty cool, but a race car game on a remote is a bit tedious. They show out of stock on the Amazon game controller and it looks like they pulled the Nyko due to poor performance. I'd like to get the controller and see what it's like. If the games are still decent I might swap out the unit and see if that fixes my sound/video issues.- OVERALL IMPRESSIONI do not like the Amazon Fire TV and I'm displeased with Amazon for it. I've always trusted Amazon as a company, and they've always taken care of me before, but I feel like they pushed a lot of smoke and mirrors to sell this device. I'm torn between trying to get it to work and just returning it and getting a Roku.