I have used the Fire TV for a day, and I think that it is an enormous leap forward in set top box functionality. My brief review follows. But first, I'd like to comment on some of the negative reviews I've seen for the product. Many of them are from people who haven't purchased the product. Others gripe about what the product doesn't have, even though they product clearly states that it doesn't have it - for example, there is a lot of grousing about no HBOGo. Whether that comes to the FireTV or not, it isn't available right now. A one star review because one app is missing Or you can't stream some content from your hard drive (even though there are apparently apps that will perform this task for the Fire TV) Well, take those types of reviews for what they might be worth.Let me start by saying that I own two Roku 2's. I've owned Roku's for quite some time. I don't own the Roku 3, so my comparisons are probably stale. The Roku is a great product, and you can't go wrong owning one. But let me describe the features of the FireTV that have so far delighted me:1. Easy connection to my WiFi connection. I have never been able to connect to my 5G network where my TV is located with my Roku. The Fire TV picked up the signal easily, and streaming is seamless. It could be the dual antennas. Whatever the reason, if signal capture is an issue for you, the Fire TV seems to work well.2. Loading of videos is very fast, almost instantaneous. I select a video, press the remote to play, and within 2 seconds the video is streaming with no buffering issues. It's very impressive.3. Set-up was a breeze. EDIT: I have read that some people had an issue with the initial update that the Fire TV requires. Mine updated with no problems. I was able to connect to my WiFi, and my update downloaded and installed automatically.4. Voice search is very well done. It took me a couple of attempts to learn to search after pressing the button and then hearing the beep to talk. Once I figured that out, I was searching for movies and TV shows easily. The search results have been accurate. This is a huge time saver and a great convenience. Only Amazon content is selected during the search process. I understand that the other content providers have to permit search into their applications for it to work.I have not figured out how to fling my Fire HDX screen to my TV yet. Once I figure this out, it will open up all kinds of other options for the Fire TV. I didn't buy the product for this feature, but I'm interested to get it working. This could be a huge game changer, as you can access content at other sites on the web and display it on your TV. I hope Amazon provides more help to accomplish this.I purchased the gaming controller and was able to pair it with the Fire TV. I haven't played anything yet. But I'm intrigued by the options.One disappointment I have to mention: where is Amazon music My music collection should be available front and center. There's an app for my phone, there is an Amazon music player app for Roku, so Amazon should integrate the music collection. It makes sense that they would do so in order to bring even more value to the entire Amazon content platform. I'm thinking that there will be something shortly, as the rumor is that Amazon is going to provide a music streaming service in the very near future. Amazon needs to address this promptly.Overall, if graded as just a simple streaming box, it gets a 5. With the other options the Fire TV may provide - Miracast screen duplication, games, etc., the product certainly exceeds my expectations.UPDATED 4/5/14: I've had the Fire TV for two days now. I was so pleased I purchased another, and they have now replaced my Roku 2XD's. Both of mine set up in no time, and had no issues connecting quickly to my WiFi network and installing the initial download. I don't have a over-technical set-up for my WiFi. I have a Comcast cable modem (3rd gen) and a Netgear router. My Fire's saw the router with ease, and connected the 5G band. This is something only one of my Roku's could do because of the distance that one of them was from the router.The video quality is superb. I don't have these boxes set up to take advantage of Dolby 5.1, just simple TV speakers. But, the sound is forceful and clear. I've not had any issues of whining or other distortion that some have mentioned.The voice search is frankly amazing. I have read that some people don't like it or feel it is too limited. But for searching your Amazon options it is outstanding. For me, it is fast and accurate and is a huge time saver. I am eagerly awaiting adoption of the technology by other app vendors.The screen layout does take some time getting used to. I won't call it clunky, but it is crowded. It lists items in a fairly rigid order depending upon the category you are in. And yes, Amazon content comes first. That' to be expected. But Amazon doesn't block your access to other apps. If you want HULU or Netflix, you can get to them easily. You can even use voice search to find the app you want. I suspect there will be some streamlining of the interface at some point. The interface does tie into the interfaces on Fire HDX somewhat, so I can see the attempt at consistency here.Gaming so far has been limited, but I've found a great pinball app and am reliving my younger days on the tables. The gaming controller works well, and I don't have any lag playing the game. I haven't attempted any others yet, but I look forward to a good driving game. I'm a casual gamer, not hard-core, and this system may just fit the bill. My Xbox glory days are over, as my kids thoroughly thrash me at Call of Duty.All in all, this box delivers exactly what I wanted and more.