I bought this to supplement my OTHER streaming devices. I already have a Sony Google TV, which supports the Amazon Prime Streaming and YouTube etc. It connects to my TV using the HDMI. AND I have an Android tablet that lets me connect through the HDMI to my TV.The reason I bought the FIRE TV was I was under the impression I could use it to download Apps, (which is sort of true), and the App I wanted to use was the Xfinity TV GO. I have it on my Android Tablet, but since it's wi-fi only, it suffers a lot from stutters and stops etc. So I figured since the FIRE TV connects to my CAT-5/LAN, I would have a faster connection.FIRST GRIPE - When I get the FIRE, first thing I tried to find was the Xfinity App. It wasn't on the FIRE's Menu at all. Then I got on Amazon's site, and found it on Amazon's App Store, but there's a great big RED X next to the app, saying It's not compatible - D R A TSECOND GRIPE. No matter what I've tried to do, I cannot figure out how to limit my browsing of movies and TV Shows to ONLY show Prime eligible content. On my SONY Goggle TV, the app that came with it lets me filter out the content so that only my Prime Membership Free Streaming shows up in my search results. IMHO, this a less than subtle method of forcing you to make a buying decision every time you look for content. I don't know which is worse, no filters or embedded advertising.THIRD GRIPE - The APP store is extremely limited. There's just a little over 100 apps available. Considering this is an Android device, and the Android Play Store probably has well over 10,000 apps.... that's very poor APP support.OH YES, Either I couldn't find it, or THERE IS NO WEB BROWSER.It seems that everyone that makes one of these devices, has their own little world that they support, and they try to block out every one else that could be competition. The end result is the Consumer ends up paying the penalty. AMAZON needs to wake up - Not everyone is in love with Amazon.Yes, for a first timer, The Fire is a reasonably slick device to own, but I simply can't see the point in keeping the FIRE. It's so extremely limited as compared to a REAL Android device, and everything it does is already duplicated on one of my OTHER devices.I am sending it back for a refund.