I love my amazon prime membership. I use it to stream TV and movies, and I love that I can download content to my Fire as well. I bought a Roku a couple of years ago and it has truly changed the way I use my prime membership. Because I use it for TV and movies, it reaffirms that the new price is worth it.I had been considering buying a second Roku for a secondary TV, but when I saw this new device, I bought it right away Here are my thoughts:SET UPSo simple to set up. Including opening the package, it took me 5 minutes (I timed it). All I had to do was connect the device to the HDMI and plug it in. Then I put in my WIFI password. Because the device is so slim and small, I have it sitting under my HDTV on the console. I feel like the cords are neater there.It took an additional 38 minutes to update the software, so it did take a while to actually be able to use it. I loved that as soon as it finished loading, a short, fun and helpful startup instructional video ran.Since I bought it for myself on amazon, it was automatically uploaded with my account info.NAVIGATING AMAZON VIDEO CONTENTIt gave me the option to add parental controls in the form of a pin to my account, which I did, because I didn't want my kids to accidentally (or on purpose) buy an episode. At first I was frustrated by this, because Amazon Prime content wasn't showing up. If I tried to access something on my watchlist, I had to select other viewing options to watch via Prime. I'm still not sure why this is. Then I still had to put my pin in, which made me wonder if I was buying it. I went to settings and was able to leave the pin on for purchased content and turn it off for Prime content, which is what I want. Then it made it easier to access the prime content.VOICE SEARCHThis does work It's great. You push the button on the remote and speak the title or actor. Amazingly intuitive.APPSI added the YouTube app and it was easy to sign in to my account and access my videos. I'm sure my kids will love this.AS COMPARED TO ROKUI'm still out on this. The Roku 2 (which is the one I have) is at least twenty dollars cheaper and is what I was planning to buy for my 2nd TV. I really like the voice search feature over the Roku search. And it does seem to be faster.However, the navigation of the actual prime content isn't as easy to access as on the amazon app on the Roku. Part of it might be unfamiliarity, but it seems like it's easier to find prime content via the app on the Roku than the TV/Movie section on the Fire TV (It doesn't seem to have Prime set apart separately like on the app I use on the Roku).I do like the games availability and think my 10 year old son will enjoy it. It was one thing that caused me to buy it. He enjoys playing Angry Birds on the Roku, but that's where it ends there. It also comes with 500 coin credit to use.