FireTV is basically just what it sounds like: it turns your TV into a giant Kindle Fire. If you are familiar with other streaming media players, youll have an idea of what to expect. FireTV streams video and audio content to your TV from the same providers: Hulu, Netflix, and (of course) Amazon.So lets go through my first experience:Part One: Opening the box (Queue Thus Sprach Zarathustra.)Ok, I have to say it: Nothing impressive here, sorry Amazon. I have to say that the FireTV is about the most boring looking black box Ive ever seen. The good news: It completely disappears on your entertainment center.The remote is pretty bare bones looking. The microphone button grabbed my attention, but otherwise, there are very few buttons. Can I complain that it is both very black and very small Yes, I know that Black is the new Black, but Ive already lost it once and Ive had it for about 2 hours.Ok, enough looky-looky, time to um.hooky-uppy.Part Two: Setup (Where is my That was Easy button)Power: CheckHDMI Cable: CheckTurn on TV: CheckWait for it to bootwaitIts done: Check (That was fast)And done Check Im an Amazon Prime member and my account was already setup on the box and ready to go.Part Three: Interface (What does this button do)Actually, its not rocket science:The Home button takes you back to the home screen.Click the wheel to scroll through options.Hit the button to make your selection.Voice Search: Ok, I will tell you: I am not a big user of voice tech. Really, I hate to use the telephone. I guess Im afraid the pizza guy is going to tell me No But I can see that with a little getting over my own fears, voice search is going to be awesome My FireTV correctly heard all three of my queries. One caveat here: Voice Search only pulls up Amazon content. No a huge deal for my family, but maybe for yours. You can always search the old fashioned way like other streaming boxes.Part Four: Video and AudioAs I said, it was easy to hook up. Just plug it in. Video looked great on my 40 TV. Audio was good over our home stereo. The quality did not seem any better or worse than my other HD set top box.The services available to stream from are also pretty standard fare both on the video and audio front.Part Five: Games (Thousands of games coming)This reminds me a bit of the days when I got the original Kindle Fire. Of course, Amazon made good on their promise there, so I have faith that theyll do the same here. Just a quick view through the list of already available games tells me that there is already a good mix of approved titles for the Fire TV, and more are on the horizon.Please do not mistake this for a NextGen gaming console. It looks like a good choice to be able to play tons of Android games on your big screen.Overall: 4 stars. Fire TV is a very nice mix of old and new. There are a few puzzle pieces missing, but knowing Amazon, theyll be filled in quickly