This is a great device if you don't have a smart TV (apparently mine streams Amazon Prime, but the interface is so terrible that I never bothered using it) or other streaming device besides the Chromecast (which is very limited).First of all, little things: the packaging was very nice. The remote itself feels amazing to hold and the buttons are very simple. The Fire TV itself is beautiful, very minimalist. All you see is the tiny LED on the front when it's in use.The voice search IS great It didn't catch Idina Menzel, but it could be because I searched her name right after searching John Travolta. It brought up musicals, Will Ferrell, etc. without a problem. Voice search only works within everything available on Prime it seems (things available to rent or stream), and I wish it included the Netflix titles, perhaps with a See on Netflix button instead of just showing me the rent option for what isn't on instant Prime.I wish you could sort by Amazon Prime-only movies, with an interface similar to Netflix's. I want to see what's available to me NOW, not what I can rent.The games are fun, and it's pretty cool to be able to play phone games on the TV. My whole family actually enjoyed playing Minion Rush. I don't have any controllers yet, and I hope that 2P games, if they aren't out yet, are coming in the future.I've only had mine a day, but so far I'm loving this purchase We do have an xbox one, smart tv, and even a computer hooked up downstairs into the same 60 monitor, but the xbone interface for netflix is SO AWFUL that we hardly ever use it (unlike the one on the 360) and it's a pain just to have to start up the computer and interact with such a huge screen with computer peripherals. Because our Vizio smarttv is rather clunky and slow, it has never loaded any video streaming for us before somehow crashing. This Fire TV clears those problems, and with an INCREDIBLY simple interface.Love it I would give this 5 stars if you could use the voice search for commands and inside apps (such as Netflix).EDIT April 11, 2014:After using my Fire TV for about a week, I've settled into what I use it for most (until I get my gaming controller, which is apparently on backorder until the 23rd). I mostly wanted a device to watch my favorite shows (via Netflix or locally) without any troubles. It's MUCH faster to launch and use the Netflix app on the Fire TV than it is on my smart TV, the xbox one, and the computer hooked up to it via HDMI. It's also PERFECT for streaming locally via Plex -- my music, TV shows, movies, and more are so very easily accessible on here vs. the computer hooked up (which is not my PC) and the xbox one (which is such a nightmare for this task that I barely consider it). This app is only 99 cents and will make your Fire TV experience a lot more enjoyable, so you really owe it to yourself to get it.I absolutely love the feel of the remote and how simple and intuitive it is to use. After fiddling with the TV remote for the input button, which despite always being in the same spot, I always have trouble finding, it's a joy to use a remote that is much simpler. This probably makes me sound old (I'm 20). The remote orientation doesn't matter, so you don't fiddle around with making sure you've pointed it correctly. I suppose this is because it uses BT.The voice search, which I use somewhat often, is a joy to use. It's much better than shouting across the room at the Kinect, which only picks up what I say less than half of the time. I hope Microsoft doesn't save voice recordings the same way Amazon does, because about 80 of that is just me yelling profanities at the Kinect.