This was SO easy to set up. We were up running in less than 10 minutes and WOW. This is primarily my hubby's toy (I play on the computer, he flies the TV). Voice search is SUCH a timesaver. I used to have to stop whatever I was doing to type in whatever he needed to search for. NOW, HE CAN HANDLE IT. Speak and ye shall FIND. Love, love, love this boxThe speed of the video loading is awesome, as is the intuitive search function (Amazon KNOWS what he likes, so his lists are more or less pre-filtered so they load faster).I waffled for WEEKS before buying this. I read tons of reviews finally decided it would be worth the temporary (Honey, HOW DO I DO THIS) change in look, feel, etc. (we've been streaming with a Roku since about 2009 had the Roku XD for a long time, just before the change to FireTV).Finally, I decided to try it, thinking if Hubby had too much difficulty adapting, we'd just send it back (while also TRUSTING AMAZON to have made a massive leap forward--have never, myself, been disappointed with any of their electronic offerings).I was expecting to have to sync it with our router, sign on to our accounts again and again (Amazon, Netflix, etc.).NOPE. Plug it in.It turned itself ON.Updated ITSELF.FOUND my router.Was PRE-LOADED with my Amazon account.We were from box to watching in under 10 minutes (there's even a 2 or 3 minute cartoon TUTORIAL that teaches you everything you need to know to stream use your remote--easy breezy).When he wanted to try Netflix, he was able to EASILY click to install an app, then I *painfully* used a grid-keyboard to logon to Netflix account (username pwd) only ONCE and we were DONE.The voice search is SUCH a leap forward. It's incredible AND accurate. Can voice search by title, genre, director, actor, everything. And it even understands SOUTHERN. WooHooIt has 4 times the processing speed and 4 times the memory of our previous Roku box WOW what a difference in loadtime, resolution, quality of picture/vividness of color. Just awesome. What can I say Amazon did it again.Movie/Program descriptions are displayed at the bottom of the screen ( my ONLY quibbling complaint is you can't change the font size on descriptions w/o altering TV resolution, which I won't do). They do have excellent Closed Captioning functionality for those who need it you can enlarge the fonts there for easy readability.Basically, I'm very happy we took the plunge it really was a worthwhile improvement for us (we prefer Amazon's video streaming anyway--they have lots more documentaries than the other streaming services).I'm just sorry I waited so long : )---------Quick Update:Not all apps come preloaded on the device, though a ton of others did (Pandora, Bloomberg, Showtime Anytime, Netflix, Vevo, Vimeo, WatchESPN, Crackle, HuluPlus, iheartradio, and tuneinradio).IF you have an Amazon Kindle TABLET (I'm guessing like the HDX), you can somehow toss photos from the tablet directly to the Fire. Meaning, sitting in your living room, you can, apparently, swipe the photo across the screen and it lands on the Fire. (Don't have that, so can't DO that). HOWEVER, we do have many photos saved to Amazon's Cloud Drive they were all accessible from the FireTV console (via the TV, with just a click)--even a short family video we'd uploaded. With no interference from me. Just clicked on Photos there they were. EASY. A very nice feature.