When I decided to purchase the Kindle HDX. I had been looking at several tablets closely for the past few months to use while I was away from home on an upcoming trip expected to last few weeks. And seeing the current price and purchasing options available the Kindle HDX seemed to be an easy choice to me. Even with my thinking I understood the tablets limitations.The things that attracted me to the Kindle HDX tab, were the processor, it's 4 G LTE compatibility with Verizon, and the fact that I am an Amazon Prime member. I had read that Amazon was expecting people to use their online services for video and music so having membership I was not too concerned about the small amount of storage on the tablet. But that was a mistake on my part. I was thinking I would be able to access the movies that I purchased online with Amazons instant video, and expected to be able to access the 128 gigs of music I have stored on Google Play, but Google Play media will not load on my Kindle HDX. Amazons cloud does store music up to a point, but it is limited in how much you can store free of charge. There is an option to purchase additional storage, (I believe it's about 25 a year with other limitations). But the free storage is limited and in my case I've been buying music from Amazon since the 1990's and a lot of my music was displaced by newer purchases without my knowing. So now I'm forced to either purchase additional space or be satisfied with what's there. Personally I feel the additional 25 is a rip off since particularly since the purchase of the kindle and considering my Prime membership, and with other services offer free unlimited uploads of music Amazon seems pretty greedy at this pont.Here are the things I like about the current Kindle HDX Verizon compatible version.1. The processor, it is very fast and loads pages quickly, and the 2 gigs of ram is a respectable amount to assist in performance.2. The variables in personal settings, make the device easy to personalize.3. The display is very nice and video and video games look great, but noting as others have there is a blue cast around the edges which is very noticeable when reading from the device.The not so great things about the Kindle HDX 16 GB.1. The fact that the device does not support storage expansion. It bothers me that my old Droid Bionic cell phone has a SanDisk slot that will let me to expand storage to 64 gigs, but you're stuck with the memory provided on the Kindle you purchase.2. The lack of an HDMI port and to watch TV, you have to purchase a separate device provided and sold by Amazon.3. The Lack of even a mini USB port. Again my old Droid telephone provides a USB port and offers a charging device with a built in USB hub that allows me to connect to any number of external attachments, and this tablet does not.Regretfully the impact of these limitations did not come to mind when I bought the Kindle, but would have if I knew the fully understood the tablets limitations.Would I recommend this tablet to friends or family Only if they were a member of Amazons Prime services and fully understood its limitations, including storage and the area support of their carrier.So over all, for basic users or those wanting a reading device with very nice options living in an area with Wi-Fi and who have good 4 G coverage the Kindle would probably be an OK purchase. But only if they are fully aware of the limitations of this tablet. Especially the limitations of the tablets onboard storage. 16 gigs is just too little to carry much media with you, with the device using a large part of that 16 gigs, for it's UI and OS you are not even getting a full 16 gigs (more like 10). Then tablet not supporting SanDisk memory expansion (which seems contrived to me), leaves the user too dependent on Amazons premium services for my tastes.(Update 4/14/14) The packet blocking used to keep people tied to Amazons Media Content (or at least their Music App) needs to be removed. In my review above, I mentioned that I have had issues accessing my music stored on My Google Play Music site. But at that time I wasn't sure that this was my being impatient, not waiting for the site to load completely even though I did wait for five minutes, or if it was Amazon using packet blocking and redirection to keep people tied to their services. More recently I found that when trying to access my music on the Google site I was redirected to the My Books Recommendations. I believe the Kindle site offers better deals, and has a wider selection than Googles offerings, but Googles music site includes downloads at the same cost and higher resolution (320 Kbps vs. the 190-240 Kbps at Amazon). More over recently a few friends told me they have run into the same issue when trying to access their media stored at other various sites (that are either free or that do not charge what Amazon does for their Premium Cloud Services).As someone else has mentioned in their review of the Kindle. Amazon has included adds on the Kindle HDX that are not present on other tablets (even basic inexpensive Android tablets do not have invasive adds). If I pay Amazon another fee I understand I can have those adds removed. But all of these fees really add up, and it seems to me that since I've already paid for this device, these additional fee's, and packet blocking with proprietary redirection are unacceptable and possibly illegal. Who Gives amazon the right to block content and force you to view advertisements on a device of this natureAt this point I would honestly suggest looking elsewhere unless your absolutely sure that the problems mentioned above will not come into play for you or the one you are purchasing this device for. The idea of an e-reader with expanded abilities is one thing, but to advertise the Kindle HDX as a tablet able to compete with an I-Pad, and then throw things like site redirection, packet blocking to limit access media storage to their proprietary services makes me wish I had purchased anything other than this device.