This review is from a normal working NON IT type of dude who likes to read books surf the web etc etc etc So this will review will be just like me telling you how I think the HDX is over a beer :) My family has 2 Kindles 1 HD which my son loves, 1 HDX mine, 1 ipad mini older son 1 ipad normal size for the wifey and I have used all of them at one time or another.1. Size weight,,,,, lighter and thinner than the ipad mini,,, perfect size to handle. I like the location of the on/off button and volume, much better than my sons HD I dont like to search for buttons on the side.2. Speed, its seems REALLY fast, book pages are in a blink of an eye the web loaded fast not choppy or drag, my wifi is pretty good so it helps. I have not tried the 4 G yet so I cant comment on that.3. Screen WOW its really sharp almost as good as my Samsung 55 in LCD 1080,,,,yes darling it is that sharp.4. Did I mention there is no blue or purple gold green or rainbow light around the border if there is it is so light I cant notice it. I only used it for an hour or so last night so I will update if this changes but for now it looked clean.5. Apps,,,hmm I hear a lot of people b*tching about google this or google that,,,,WHO CARES,,there is enough content on Amazon to keep me happy not that I am a betting man I will bet there is a bunch more in the pipe line.6. I maxed the Kindle out with 64 gb so I assume i will have enough room for years to come.7. Very easy to use,,,,,turned it on entered my wifi password and bam my account was set up in less than 1 minute.8. Shipping it was here in 1 day for 3.99 how can you beat that 9. Amazon eco-system good stuff period I have always been a huge fan 10. Did I mention there is no blue or purple border light :)11. So to sum up my thoughts on my new Kindle HDX is this,, OUTSTANDING I would recommend buying it over an I PAD for PRICE (value) the I PAD mini does not offer a 64 gb model and the 16 gb 4g mini cost 429 which is 5 bucks more than I paid for my maxed out Kindle AND the 64 gb 4g I PAD air is 829 Yea thats right 829 LOOKS the Kindle is a really sharp looking device, speed fast fast fast, screen WOW, sound clear rich amazon prime works for me, I hate shopping in stores love my books and amazon has it all.So your prob saying wow this is a normal dude posting a review that says this thing is pretty much perfect, well it does seem this way BUT,,,,,,,,,yea there is always a BUT, the only thing i see that should be included is a back facing camera not that I am one of those parents you see waving their IPAD around at a school play or my kids basketball game but sometimes your 5 year old does something so cute while your reading a book you just want to snap the pic, this is so minor that I really dont care but just putting it out there for Amazon ( cough cough ) .Did I mention I did NOT have a blue or purple light around the border Thanks for letting me post my 2 cents on this wonderful device Merry Christmas to all )ps what is the best screen covers case to get On a side note I returned the Kindle it to small for me and I had to drop it down to a 2 stars for being hung up on by customer service twice and the really bad screen flicker