I actually was pretty happy with my kindle initially. It had some good apps, the screen had really good quality and I like their support features. That's where the good news ends.As I started using my kindle more an more, I noticed that some of the apps which are free on my android tablet or iPad, I had to pay for on my kindle. Initially I was surprised but I decided it was a minor nuisance.What really put me over the edge is that about 6 months after I purchased my Kindle I noticed that my screen was cracked as I was pulling it out of my backpack. Now I really take care of my things so I was surprised that it broke. Nothing against the quality of the product, but it was definitely surprising because it is fairly well protected with a padded sleeve in my backpack. Anyhow, I called into Amazon support to see what I could do about it but they told me that I would have to buy a new one. The support person I spoke to on the phone said that she would try to speak to her supervisor to see if they would be willing to replace it for me but later came back and said that they cannot replace it and that they would have to sell me a new one at a 'reduced rate'.At this point, I'm thinking Im going to skip out on the reduced price Kindle for 150, that they offered me and I'm going back to my iPad. Why Well for one, I won't have to pay the additional money for otherwise free apps. Two, I know that I will have my iPad covered under warranty no matter what happens.So the key thing to keep in mind before you buy a Kindle is the following:1 - There are no official repair facilities. So if you break your screen, you are forced to buy a new one. If you go with something more common like an iPad or a Android tablet, you can find repair facilities all around. And with Apple, you can get the extended care and they WILL replace your iPad screen (or even your whole iPad) if/when you break it.2 - Apps are more expensive because you cannot buy them from Google Play. You have to buy higher priced versions of the exact same app from Amazon. Later, if you decide that the Kindle isn't for you, you have just wasted all that money on apps that will stay with a useless Kindle.The apps thing is bearable but the lack of repair facilities or help is not. I think I would be have given the kindle 4 start if they offered and extended protection plan so that we knew that we were going to keep our purchase for a longer period of time. I mean let's face it, the probability of anyone damaging their kindle within the life expectancy of the product is fairly high. So your investment is this product will last as long as you can maintain it in good shape.At this point, I'm cutting my losses and moving back to the iPad.