My 16 year old daughter has been diagnosed with depression and the inability to handle change(can't remember the actual wording).  She was living with her father and his girlfriend (father is 47 and girlfriend is 27) and their new baby who is 8 months.  She is skipping school, however is very intelligent, easily could pass even though she has missed 158 classes since start of second semester in Feb 2011.  She is on an anti-depressant, has a weekly meeting with her counsellor, is under the care of a psychiatrist, however that is very sparodic due to the health care system.  She left her father's house and is currently living in a girls shelter, but she now suspects that she is pregnant, is due in court next week for shoplifting and I (her mother) live 5 hours away.  She has a sister that graduated from university and is working in another province, but her brother who struggles with the same issues (he is 22) works for his father and lives on his own, but has a drug problem.  The only thing that my daughter hasn't done is drugs,,,,she will drink, she smokes and she skips.  It doesn't seem to matter what we say or do.  I should also mention that the step sister (baby) almost died because the mother took drugs during the pregnancy and the childrens aid society is quite involved in the care of the infant.  The father, my ex, has little time as he has to be the sole responsible person for the baby, work and ensure that the mother attends her meetings and testing.  They also were doing family councelling, but this seems to have little effect on either my daughter or the girlfriend.  I work full time, look after my mother (88) and my elderly sister (69) lives with me, along with my boyfriend (52) and his son,(27).  She has a room here, but due to her inability to adapt well to change, moving her here is very difficult as she doesn't want to attend school as she knows no one.  I love her to pieces but am at a loss as to what to do next.  Is some sort of boot camp the answer?  She is very good at manipulating any situation and pretty much lies about everything to her father,,,,almost tells me too much information, but at least the lines of communication are there.