I've been married almost 3yrs. Before getting married my wife lived with relatives who she always complained about and said they treated her like $h!t. I will agree that they were not always nice, but I also saw that my wife would exaggerate things. So anyways, now married my wife does absolutely nothing. She does not cook or clean. Maybe cook once a month and only cleans when she knows we are having a house guest. She does not grocery shop, do laundry, clean dishes, take out garbage, work, contribute financially, or every want to have sex. She promised me children and now looks for every excuse not to have them. She does have an autoimmune disease which does make her tired and her medication makes her not interested in sex...so she says. Now hears the thing. I'm a doer and I do not mind doing these chores on top of working. My problem is that she shows no interest in anything but herself. I can't even have an adult conversation with her because anything she does not like she deflects and turns it into an argument.
She constantly says that everybody annoys her. Says I treat her like crap...keep in mind aside from all I do. Itry to spend time with her each day...ask her about her day, spend time watching tv withjust try to have an overall interactive life and communicate...I can live with all the above....what I can't live with is the following....
When we argue...she because irrational and violent...she will verbally abuse me...so I walk away, she will follow me and antagonize me til I shout back and when she doesnt like what I have to say, she will kick and punch me, knee me in the balls, spit in my face, threaten to stab herself with knives. She grabs all my possesions and breaks them. Tonight she broke a wallet of mine, the time before a $1,000 watch. She has broken a computer, sunglasses, a phone. I've done laundry and folded and she throws and tantrum and dumps all the dressers on the floor. Then says I care nothing about her feelings and what she has to say. How about my feeling and just wanting a normal life with a job and a family...that's all I want! I love her so much, but her entire life she lived off her parents and relatives, now me. She does not contribute to anything in this relationship and quite frankly I can't seeing my divorcing her, because I love her and want her to be better, but If I knew what I was getting in to ...I would have never married her. I am misserable, have gained weight, and just don't have the same appreciation for things like I used to. She thinks people says things they never said. She twists things around...for example she was being mean and abusive and so I said I really don't give a **** about what you have to say...her response...i knew it...you just finally admitted it, you don't care about me, you never did, you don't love me. Really???? Is she friggin crazy? But somehow and some way, I am always to blame, its always my fault and I am selfish and care about nothing but myself. Please keep in mind that I am a very honorable and kind person and very likeable...please help me. Thank you all for your time...I am greatful.