1. The First Time 
I am a young mother of three but my story start with the one that I'll share to you guys and i really want to ask and very open for suggestions if i need to consult someone in the medical profession regarding this matter. If there's something wrong going on in my brain or what? 
When I was pregnant with my first child almost 6years ago because he’ll turn 6 years old this July I always dreamt every night and talking with someone but I wasn't really aware of it since I was asleep but sometimes I felt that I'm talking when I open my eyes but then I go to sleep again. I didn't mind that at all since it was not a big deal to my husband since I was pregnant an excuse I guess but when we happened to go home to my province one time while I was still pregnant with my 1st child my 1st cousin told me that "you know our grandmother (my father's mom) said that you often talked to her every night for I guess almost 2months in a row” but we didn't believe her since you're in the city and we're here in the province. Well, I think only a fool would believe that right? Since, we are in different places so they thought that my grandma is going crazy so they didn't mind what she was telling but husband said maybe it's true since every night during the time duration that our grandma said that you were talking to her you were really always talking every night. But then I didn't mind it that badly since i thought maybe It was just a coincidence. I just even cracked a joke that now I’m communicating in dreams! What an unusual thing! Is that a coincidence?
2. The same time around
Just last month, December of 2010 when my sister was planning to go in the province to go process somethings i felt something that drives me to tell her not to take that trip that day going home but i didn't tell her that since i thought maybe she won't take that trip because of some things that she might do first but then she took the trip going to the province because they were in another city a 6 hours drive away from the city where we also reside. So on that night she took that trip and on the next day after that trip she told me she got traumatized because the bus she rode to was been held up by some men and took all their money, every passenger and the collection of the bus from that trip was robbed. I was so regretful that I didn't tell her not to take that trip because I felt something that something bad might happen but ignored it but I still told her that I should have told you and she said too that you should have told me that so that I never got onto that trip. Tell me is that a coincidence too?
3. Third time
Still just last month, I dreamt that my grandpa(dad of my mom) who passed away last year of march that when he died when we I was wiping his face with a cotton he rise up from death and told that he was hungry and thirsty and there was no food and even told some more things but I couldn’t remember it all but what I can remember It was the voice of my late grandpa who was talking but the face of the man I was certain that It wasn’t him because I was always figuring out so I didn’t mind that much that dream but I told my aunt, my mom, my sis and other members of the family about that dream that it might have a meaning but again it wasn’t much of a big deal  but after maybe  about two(2)weeks my brother in-law(the bro of my husband) suddenly passed away and when I was wiping the hand of my bro-inlaw with cotton balls to remove some dirt’s from the remains of the medical scotch tapes I don’t know the right term for that but by then my dream came through that it was my brother-in-law whom I was wiping with cotton on the face in my dream that it wasn’t my grandpa but my grandpa’s voice. The face in my dream cleared-up and it was him, so I thought if I should have seen and known that it was him in my dreams we should have gone with them when he called me that we’ll have a family get away but I told him that we might not go along with them because my father was still at the hospital at that time but was discharged the next day that the getaway was planned  but we didn’t joined in but it was the last day after all that we’ll talk to him that he’s alive and maybe the time that he’ll say goodbye because after 2days he was gone. If only I saw him that he was that man from my dream but I didn’t it was later. How can you explain these too?
4. Fourth Instance
This year, January 2011 there had been some problems and I need to talk to this person since she hurt me a lot and I was really dying to call her so that we meet up and settle things up but I was thinking twice and very reluctant that she might not answer my call or would hang-up on me instead so I left my kids in the play yard (place to have things being taken cared and play while you do groceries or shopping). When I went down to a bookstore just to kill my time if I could by something while my kids are still enjoying playing I was still deeply thinking to call that person but still reluctant so I just kept looking around to find stuff for me to buy maybe I was an hour there and then suddenly when I look by the side I saw that person that I was dying to call to talked to and settle things up So I approached her right away and told her I was really thinking of calling you since this morning to settle things but I was thinking twice so we talked…But again is this a coincidence? Or my mind can really get into others head? Or I was just hallucinating about all these things? 
Please I need your help on these, please post comments and suggestions.
Thanks a lot!