I really don't know what's going on. I was on another website called Funadvice,and someone told me about this website. Why? Because I had questions about schizophrenia. Eh,let's start from the beginning...
This started just a couple months ago...
1)I've been hearing weird things:Dripping (Like something thick was dripping on the carpet), a train, footsteps and breathing.
2)I think that everyone is after me. I have new teachers this year and I think they'll lie,betray and cheat.
3)I couldn't see the train,but I could hear it. It was coming right at me. The train conductor wants me dead. He wants me to die the same way he did. I know he was standing at the foot of my bed last night and blood was pouring from his mouth. He sleeps under my bed at night,and stays awake just to listen to me toss and turn and breathe with fear.
4)I'm scared someone is going to pop out from the doorway and get me. Or someone will come and rob me...Take all of our money.
5)I have this repetitive thought in my mind that will not go away.
6)I'm afraid that if I speak in front of someone they'll record my voice,then they'll remember it when they see me again and then somehow get me in trouble.
7)I think there is microscopic video cameras everywhere,recording my every move. Then they'll give mental hospital doctors the videos,so then they can come and take me away.
8)Everything has to be neat and tidy;nothing at all out of place.
9)If I crack my knuckles,for example,I have to rub my hands,wrists and arms over and over...About 2 times. If I touch something,I have to touch it all over.
10)I feel like someone is peeking through the windows. Like,someone dressed in all black with huge black eyes. He wants to slit my throat and rape my corpse.
11)For a couple days,or even a week,I'm super happy. I feel like I have everything. Then a couple days,or a week later,I'm really sad. I hate myself and wish I was dead,or was born into a different family.
12)I've been faking who I am on here and on other websites. Not a real person,fictional,so it's not illegal. I just want everyone to know I'm sooo sorry and I wish I could go back and think twice,but I can't. It's like,I have my own world inside my head. 
13)I'm always wide awake,and it takes me awhile to fall asleep.
14)I'm really nervous and scared right now,but I feel like laughing and smiling.
I recorded my thoughts on paper...It kinda scared me.
I've tried telling my mom,but she thinks I'm overreacting or I'm just trying to get attention.
 I've been on Yahoo and Funadvice,asking what the hell is wrong with me. No one had any answers.
In case you need to know,my dad is an abusive alcoholic who provided pot for me. He gave me pot,ciggies and beer. My mom is a pothead,and has been for 3 years. I just found out a couple months ago. My uncle is living here in our hosue too,because he has no job. He's also an alcoholic and annoys me a lot.
I've already been diagnosed with anxiety and depression. I have been cutting myself on and off for 3 years on the wrist. 
My dad may be bipolar. I don't know. He hates doctors. 
My mom has depression,also.
I'm so scared right now,and so nervous. I broke a fan earlier because it was moving weird. My mom woke up and didn't even ask me if I was okay or anything.
I could go on and on...But let's get to the point. What is wrong with me?! Please,help me. My mom has told me I was going to go to a doctor,but she lied. Help,please!