It's been almost 2-3 years since I've been on antidepressants or any kind of medication for my mental health. I have only ever tried the one brand of antidepressants I was first put on back then. My experience on that medication was horrifying. It was as if the only emotions I exhibited were either spiraling depression, anger/frustration, or absolutely nothing at all. Living with my parents at the time, they began to notice what the medication was doing to me, and realized I was experiencing just about every single symptom labeled "contact your doctor immediately if you have:" type of symptoms. My parents actually contacted the psychiatrist I was seeing at the time, as I had no idea anything was even going on, most of the time I was numb, but when I felt anything, it was bad. The psychiatrist only upped the dose on me of the same medication brand I was on, and left it at that. I ended up taking it upon myself, as I began to hit the spiraling severe depression again one week, I quit the medication cold turkey (which I understood was bad for your health to do, and I did experience awful withdrawal symptoms) but it made me feel "more human" being off the meds. Well, I haven't been on anything since as I've been afraid to try anything again. I have this awful thought in my head that these medications don't allow me to be myself, and I don't want to be numb just to be "more manageable" to be around for others. I believe myself to have severe/manic depression, severe anxiety, and quite possibly a touch of bipolar disorder. I'm not sure what to do to get the help I know that I need, as I ruin any and every type of relationship I have (friends, family, romantic, etc). 
 I really want help, but I've noticed (which I have tried seeing therapists/psychologists more recently than the last time I took medications) I cannot seem to find a therapist that suits me. The last one I had practically only wanted to talk about themselves, and they and my family made it more about family counseling, which I do not need at this stage, I firmly believe I need to delve into and treat MY problems first before I can assess and treat the problems I have within my relationship with my family. My problems cause majority of the problems I have with them, and no offense, but I feel that a lot of my mental problems are genetic, and my parents don't exactly help anything, as all we ever do is argue, and they are not understanding nor do they calmly listen to anything I try to come to them about. The therapist I had prior to that one was the type that when I would discuss how I felt, and my actions they would just put their hand up to interrupt me, and basically tell me "not to think like that", or "act like that".
 Any suggestions on what I should do to start getting things finally taken care of? I'm tired of my narcissistic view of the world, and I'd really like to get my mental health taken care of as I'm going to be having a baby at some point within the next month and a half and I'd like to get on something safe during pregnancy that will also help and prevent my symptoms from worsening with postpartum depression as I've been told I'm a good candidate for.
 Thanks.