For the past 18 months, I've had bouts of depression due to insecurity, job stress and just general unhappiness with life.  I spent several years living in different states after grad school, and finally decided to 'settle' in my current city to be closer to my family.  Within a couple of months of moving here in the summer of 2011, I had a great job, and met a great guy.  Life seemed pretty good.  Within another 6 months, both my job and relationship started to become very stressful.  My job is very demanding, since I'm a manager...but I'm a middle manager in the federal government, so sometimes things are very bureaucratic and authority is often implied.  My boyfriend on the other hand, was very emotionally unavailable, and he lost his job about 5 months into our relationship.  Although I was very supportive, he often made me feel his needs were more important than mine, and he never made me feel loved or appreciated.  I've never had a man treat me the way he did, and even though it's been over a year since we split up, I'm still having a hard time getting over it.  I think honestly I'm mad at myself for allowing someone to treat me that way, and I should've ended it much sooner.  Every time I would try to, he would say just enough 'nice' things to keep me around.  I finally got upset and walked out of his house one night, and never looked back.  I was proud of myself for walking away, but I think I didn't really get the closure I needed.
 Back to the job stress...I feel I'm in a difficult situation because I have worked in federal service for 8 years.  I've built a reputation and have many benefits with my job but it's not rewarding to me.  I've been in my current position for almost 3 years and it's killing me...I built this program from the ground up and it's become very successful.  The amount of stress that follows this job is not something I can keep doing much longer.  I have been applying/looking for other jobs for over a year.  I've had 3 interviews in the past month for 3 different jobs.  I know my references had been checked with 2 positions, which usually happens when they are getting ready to make an offer.  However, I've recently just found out that I didn't get either position.  So far, I have only applied with federal agencies, mainly because I have a leg up as an internal candidate.  I've applied for several positions where I currently work over the past year, and I'm starting to feel as if someone may be sabotaging me.  I hate to think that way but I've never had so much trouble moving ahead in my career.
 The only thing that keeps me going are my friends, family, and I really love the city I live in.  But not having a job I can tolerate and being single isn't helping.  I keep applying for jobs...I go out quite a bit...I try dating.  But somehow my life seems to be at a standstill.  I don't know, 5 years ago I would've never thought I would be 32, still single and hating my job.  I keep thinking is this all there is to life?  Is it too late to start over and do something else?  I feel like I need to seek professional help or I'm going to have a meltdown.