Hi. I would be grateful and thankful for any advice during this tough phase of my life. I had a love marriage and got married in April 2014. We are a well educated couple and my husband has a degree from one of the premier MBA institutes in India. He earns very well and I earned a decent salary which was more than enough for me. Prior to being married we shared our outing bills. I did ask him if it is going to be the same post marriage and he refused. Post wedding things remained the same. My husband bought a very expensive TV and refrigerator and much later randomly commented I did not pay for it. The same was when we opened a joint account. He started telling me I do not share the rent and the internet expenses and that he had to put more money in the joint account. The prior instances might sound too silly to some people who share all the expenses post marriage but I felt insulted every time because he knew how much i earned and yet expects me to share expenses which were more than my 1 month's salary. Also I do not believe in 50-50 sharing of expenses because I believe it is one household. My in-laws are way too involving in their children’s  lives and kept coming every month post we got married. My FIL is very money minded and way too stingy. He has an ego bigger than this universe. My family incurred all the wedding expenses. He has passed very insulting comments on me and even criticized my parents in the past. I would not want to get into the comments made by him.  My MIL is a brilliant person and is a gem. She is way too dominated by her husband and cannot speak up when necessary. My husband is a gamer and is gaming all the time. Everyday post office hours and weekends were spent at home while he was always gaming and I feeling lonely. I started gaming too just to spend sometime with him but my erratic office hours dint allow that. I felt very lonely in the marriage. Our last meal together must have been in sometime in April. He gets home and starts gaming. He is very selfish, egoistic, money minded, commanding and worst of all has a passive aggressive behavior. He kept telling me I forced him to get married which is not true and no sensible educated person can ever be forced to marry. I felt ignored, neglected, disrespected and insulted all the time. My husband has a speech disorder. I knew of it before we got married and wanted to be with him even more to take care of him and fight out his health problem together. (He seemed to be a beautiful person which is one of the reasons I married him). He has visited the best of doctors in the country but his problem has not been detected till now. He has a problem in speaking every single day. The doctors don't even know if the problem will increase over the time and if its life threatening. Yet I wanted to be with him and stand by. If he gets tired he cannot speak a word. We could not indulge in any activity which included gym, adventure or any of those sorts. I am a marathon runner and have completed very difficult trails in my runs and walks. The major blow was in July when during an argument he raised his hand on me. I asked him not to do it and leave me as it was hurting but he did it further. In return I hit him back. Post that we had a huge argument. Basically showed him the mirror and he cold not take it. I was asked to leave and I came to my parents house which is in a different state. Its been 2.5 months now that I have heard my husband's voice. We rarely chat on whats-app when either of us needs to get something done. His parents were in the UK for 2 months since July and returned last month. They are coming over this month to discuss this matter with my family. Before I left my husband told me there is no way we are getting back. His family has time and again blamed me for everything and complain to my parents about how terrible I am. My husband comes out to be a very nice person and none believe me. My in-laws have not contacted me even once post I was asked to move out.. Initially I did want to work on it as it is a marriage and it takes time to adjust. But his behavior has changed my outlook. If he can bail out on me once he can do it again anytime. He depends completely on his parents to take a step forward.He decided to get married to me and now threw me out of his life while he is happily living. I am tired to the end of my wits of taking all the blame all the time. My parents asked me to keep communication open with him which i did. I occasionally ask him how his health is and wish him on any festivals. I am not sure if I should stay in this marriage and work it out. Nor do i know what is going on in his and his family's mind. Please advice and Many Thanks for reading.