As a person who has struggled with an eating disorder for years I know that only someone who has gone through the exact same struggle can understand it.
 Ever since I was a little girl, I've always felt off and abnormal. Lately I've been reading more and more about BPD and it seems to fit me like a glove. Of course I cannot be diagnosed over a computer but it would be helpful to have some insight and advice, a feeling of "Hey, I've been there too.".
 I'm going to try to make this as short as I can while painting a sort of clear picture about myself.
 Lately I've been feeling like I'm losing it. I am irritable all the time, angry and empty. This emptiness has come and gone all my life.
 I have had people tell me I am anti-social and people tell me that I am the complete opposite. I have had people tell me I have no self-esteem and I have had people tell me I'm a confident girl.
 I'm manipulative but I've never been called that because I am that 'good". I will use people to get what I want.
 If a friend does something wrong, I will cut them out and believe they are not to be trusted until they do something good. If they do something good, I will open my heart up to them and make them my favourite person.
 I have a fear of abandonment and rejection and sometimes I will push people away to give myself some kind of power and control over the situation. I have "left" my fiance more than a few times.
 I am impulsive. Some things are too embarrassing to share. I have shop lifted and stopped because I got caught when I was 18.
 I have felt on top of the world, like I am God's gift and I have felt like I am worth less than the gum under my shoes.
 I have had paranoid episodes. Just the other day I thought my fiance was talking to his ex-wife even though is completely unrealistic. It last for about a minute.
 My moods change all the time. I can be happy for a few hours then one thing can set me off and I'll be completely negative. Sometimes I'll go weeks feeling 'high' and then weeks feeling low. There is no set pattern of my mood swings.
 My emotional states are extremely intense. I can almost feel like I'm on some kind of drug when I'm happy. Full of energy and life and inspiration. And then I can think about dying when I'm low and how there's nothing and no one to live for.
 I keep tabs on my fiance and he doesn't know it because I believe he is up to something even when I don't have any evidence to back it up. And I justify it to myself because I have a right to protect myself because no one is to be trusted.
 I am funny, witty and strong to most people. I like being the one people come to for support. I like being the one making the difference but then I need to be taken care of too even though I don't always show it.
 There is a lot more but I want this post to be readable.