Let me started by saying my doctor and family have been arguing for years about what is wrong with me mentally. Since I was young I been diagnoised with learning disabilities and some minor OCD (which got worst two years ago but I'll explain that after). 
 I have a lot of problems that I can state. I am an overly sensative person. I cry a LOT. But I can also have a temper which has gotten worst over the years. Thanks to what's happened to me in the past with old friend abandoning me I've become extremely paranoid thinking people will leave me left and right. That people are out to get me. With my EX I became manipulative and controlling because I feared he would leave me. When he wanted to leave twice I got clingy and begged for him. 
 I never wanted to be alone. But at times I think it's the best option for me. I don't get hurt. I started using something else as a way to fill the void of abandonment. My cats. My love for animals. 
 I have big anxiety issues. With my OCD I have purely obsessional. I had thoughts that confused whether I loved my EX or not and those thoughts caused me major anxiety. I understand with borderline feelings can change from love to hate a lot. And I use to do that. I use to say "I love him" to "I hate him" so quickly it scared me.
 But nothing has scared me more till recently when I felt as if a switch had gone off in my head. Everything I thought I was all my life is suddenly gone. I've been an animal activist and lover for years to the point that I would do anything for animals. I've loved them more than people and would never hurt one. 
 Now I feel indifferent about them. Like I have no emotions at all. 
 I worry what would happen if my pets died. Would I be sad? Would I cry? 
 Even though weeks before I had thoughts of what would happen if I had to put them down because of how old they're getting and having problems. I bawled my eyes out. 
 Now I can't even think. I'm so apathetic about it. 
 I would get violent images in my head of killing people who have hurt me. But I know I'd never act on it. When I got angry I'd yell, I'd accused, I'd blame, I'd lie. But the only person I'd hurt would be me. I'd dig my nails into my skin, or claw my skin. I'd threaten my life. I'd say I was useless and didn't deserve to live.
 In the past I always questioned if something was wrong with me. That I'm the most useless person. How can anyone like me? 
 When my grandmother called me a sociopath it's like a switch went off in my head. I can't look at an animal anymore and feel something. I can't say they're cute. I can't gush over them. Even though for a year I been overly excited for the panda's coming to Canada so I could see my first panda in person. 
 And just a little while ago. I went to cut something out of my cats fur that got stuck. And I got the image of cutting his neck and I felt this high batch of anxiety. 
 I always been a caring person. When my old teacher died of cancer. I cried. When my friends were upset I recognize it and I comfort them. 
 But I don't feel like me anymore.
 And though this scares me another part of it doesn't. 
 They say sociopaths don't care who they are. Me I'm not sure. I was bothered and still cam. But still I don't know. I'm apathetic. When I watch sad things I can't cry like I use too. When I watched something like the hunger games I thought I'd cry but I didn't and I thought I felt myself smiling at the violence. I don't find myself feeling bad for people. My brother got hurt and I didn't seem to care.
 I'm crying right now because I'm scared. Because I don't feel like ME.