Hello, I'm Julia and I'm 15. My boyfriend and i have been scared for a month now.  About a month ago or possibly more, we got pretty intimate and he ended up fingering me. I was ovulating at the time. We couldn't recall if he had pre-ejaculate on his finger, although most of what he could remember proved the concern wrong. Nevertheless, we were paranoid to the point of no sleep for three weeks in which I experienced no symptoms of early pregnancy. I usually get my period the 20 somethingth and we were overjoyed when my period came the 30 somethingth. It was it's regular flow and for the regular time period. That month i spent worry free, until approaching the starting date of my second period since the scare. 
   Today is the 9th and it has still not come. There are no changes in my diet, not a lot of stress, sleep schedule or really anything that could make my period irregular. My period is never really irregular and is specific to even the time of night it comes.  We have had other intimate times since then, but very rarely since we do not see each other often. We were also always very careful when we did as in washing are hands even though no actual semen or pre-ejaculate was clearly on his fingers, so that i don't think there is any way i could get pregnant. 
   I have had one hour or less of lower back pain, extremely mild cramping for 5 minutes, maybe 3 or 4 days ago i got  mild breast soreness and it hasn't fully gone away since. My breasts do not feel heavy or have appeared to grow, just sore to touch.  My areoles have always been dark so its difficult to tell from that, but otherwise everything seems normal. I'm not fatigue, nauseous, dizzy, bloated or anything. Just the breast part is scaring me a little, but I am not stressed enough for it to cause a late period. 
    I have no way of getting a pregnancy test without my parents knowing, and I don't want to scare my boyfriend for asking if he can get one for me.  The internet scares me with all its different answers all contradicting each other. I've seen a school councilor about the first huge scare which helped but i'm tired of constantly living in wonder and fear. The lateness of my period with no cramps and these nonstop sore breasts are scaring me. Please share your opinion of the situation.