I do not know if it is better to stay with my functioning alcoholic husband or leave. When he is sober he is funny, and a great dad. But he is drunk 3-4 days a week. I have a lot of anxiety I believed is caused my unhappiness or depression in my marriage. I think I would be a lot happier without him but I don't want my 2 kids to grow up without their father, especially my daughter. Then again, I don't want them learning dependency from him/codependency from me. We have been married 10 years and most of that has been filled with conflict. We have weathered his 2 DUI's, my cancer and severe health problems, two children, unemployment, everything.  You would think that after almost losing me to cancer he would appreciate me some but he still blows me and the kids off, comes home, gets drunk, sleepwalks through life.  He is not physically abusive but can be very verbally hurtful when drunk.  I have caught him trying to cheat on me several times, once with my adult niece.  He pressures me constantly to "swing" and we fight about this often. I make 2x as much money as him, pay all the bills because his $ is for beer,gas, lunch money.  What is the point of him working? I almost think I am very afraid of getting cancer again and being by myself (my family offered me little support this last time).  I also still love him and deep down don't want to hurt him, I know it will devastate him.  But he doesn't change, blames me for everything. AA was ordered by the court for both his DUI's and didn't help him.  He says he is an alcoholic and laughs about it. AlAnon is not an option for me, because he would have to watch the kids and he won't.  I know financially I can do it because I pay everything now, and when he was out of work for a year, but is it better for my kids to stay with their father? My parents have been married 50 years and I really wanted that, but so sad I don't think it can hapen. WHAT WOULD YOU DO? Would you stay or go? He will not give up drinking. I know ultimately the decision is mine but having trouble deciding if I can bear living with an alcoholic just to give my kids their father.