(POST FROM jun 30) I wisih I knew whether I am right about my mother or whether I've constructed an elaborate fantasy to cover up my own failings... who can tell. nobody believes me when I try to get help. I'm 31, and I get told off by people who say GET A JOB. I can't work. I tried. my nerves were so bad, I cried every day nad night in silence, terrified they would see me, because they forced me to get the job. and one day, I accidentally broke down in thecar just as we got there. They rewarded my emotions with yelling. ;( I got sick with the flu a few months later... i'd see nthis cute baby with a flu, and I thought, OMG my way out of this hellhole!) I tried to do my job right... but I had to escape. thank god for that sweet little guy. I hope he's okay now, and healthy. that was a few years back. today, she claimed I was trying to attack her nad called the cops on me. again. ;( I feel like I'm in hell. my dad doesn't believe me, but he sure is quick to call her paranoid when it's convenient for him. I am in hell I am in hell I am in hlel. I have no friends in the US where I live. nobody believes meee... I tel everybody I can lay my hands on and they all say weird things that I don't understand, like it's not true. ;( 
 (post from jun 30)
 man, this is an old post, but I just... I flet like maybe it would be okay to post here. 
my possibly paranoid/narcissistic/borderline/histrionic mom called the cops on me today, claiming she thought I was going to attack her. I did not, would not.  I just was hysterical and trying to get the phone away from her so icould beg the 911 operator to take me away from here. I may talk big, but she KNOWs I would not. she just likes, in my opinion, to get my dad to yell at me. she's managed ot convince the police 9city hall is, unfortunately, across the street) that I am whatever it was she told them about me, and they've come to the house twice now, which was very traumatizing for me. I'm hypersensitive, and probably aspie, and I have attention deficit. 31 years old, female. I tried to wotk, but they forced me itno that before I was ready, and because of that idoubt I will ever be ready now, because I cried every day and night from stress,had nightmares, and when I revealed this to them accidentaly by bareaking down one day before they drove me to work, they rewarded my tears with yelling, claiming they were' trying ot scare me into stopping or something. I can't work due to sheer nerves and beign around people making me tired, confused and extremely suggestible, not to mention panic attacks. everyone I tell this to doesn't believe me. they believe her. am I crazy? I think I'm turbing into an emotionally/verbally abusive manipulative ***** like what I think she might be. she seems, to me, to want everyone to think Im batshit. but I feel like she's batshit. my father wont help me; he's her *****. iIf I am right about her, she manipulates him into taking her 'side' with tears, feigned illness, and goes so far as to eat badly on purpose and not exercise to exacerbate her health issues to manipulate us further. What do I do when nobody I go to for help will believe me? ;( I'm sad. this is not nice. it's not cool, and it's not right. what did I do in a past life to desrve this ****? if I am the bad one, what the hlel is wrong with me? nobody seems to want to share, but everyone has this look like oh **** I don't want to talk to this person. why won't anyone just TELL ME? do you feel like that? I'm no picnic either, but when somebody hurts somebody else, I don't like it. Period. doesn't mean I don't do it too, but truly, I don't like it. what gives?  ifeel like I'm in hell right now.