as the seroquel clears my brain and allows me more and more to see my life and how bad it is all i can think is to give my kids away all day every day i get thru the day and look at them and just want it to end for them, they dont deserve to live around me, struggling on i really think they would be much better off without me and i can finally end this misery . i know many people would be happier with me gone so why the hell am i still here,it seems to get harder every day and noone understands or wants to, so sick of asking for help everywhere and nobody replies to messages or tries to help, its not just me in this theres my kids -does noone care about them? why am i completely on my own with all this which is so hard? i dont cope in the house or out-thanks to my bipolar i tell people in the street what i think of them even if they've only looked at me! all the pressures of being a single parent build up and i loose it regularly everyday my eldests disability is killing me-watching her get worse change into this little person i dont know how to deal with or even to talk to most of the time and it breaks my heart i just want the best for my kids and im not it. i think i only keep them as im so scared of the pain that will come after they've gone, but maybe it will be different- maybe i'll feel better knowing they are finally ok. i just wish someone would damn well help me to keep my kids and do right by them they'll be so screwed up knowing i gave them away thinking they did something wrong but they havent they are wonderful little angels its me thats the devil. i need help but it doesnt look like its gonna come think i should just hand them over before something happens and they and up dragged from my arms taken away forever. i hate how much pain im in and wish so much i wasnt ill and could live like other people. i only want to get to the end of the day without a list in my head of all the horrid things ive done that day and wish i could take back but i cant. worst thing is they are the only people on this earth who love me and i just cant be what they need me to be,hate myself so much i wish someone would help