My 29 year old daughter has had mental issues since she was 13, first diagnosed with depression, then substance abuse, many hospitalizations for suicide attempts, and **************. At 19 there was a diagnosis of Histrionic personality disorder, followed 2 yrs later with Bipolar and BPD. She has neve stuck with any therapy, and she is aself mutilator, with many failed relationships, unable to finish college or keep a job.   She starts off really well, then blows herself out of the water.  Too many times in the hospital to remember and she has been committted to a state institution, in 2 different state, twice, and going on her third time.  Since no job, no insurance.  In November she started to have seizures, tonic/clonic, partial, and fairly requently.  The neurologist who saw her, after all the standard tests--CAT,EEG,MRI, said there was no smoking gun, no reasons for the seizures, and he put her on dilantion "because she didn't have any insurance , and this is cheap and this works ok."  She went back to him one more time and then quit going because he was "such a jerk."  
Her behavior since the seizures began has just come down hill.  She started cutting again which she hadn't done in almost three years, and she hospitalized herself the first part of Feb.  I wanted her to have some kind of a neurology consult but she never did, and they changed her depression meds from Cymbalta to Luvox b/c she was having thoughts to hurt herself. She was in the hospital a week, got out and was sad and depressed and six nights later in a blackout/seizure flushed all her meds and cut herself all on her inner thigh.  We placed her back in the hospital, all this time I've meant psych hospital, and while on the acute ward where patients are watched every 15 minutes, she flatten the backs of some earrings and sliced up her wrists. The docs told her she nearly got it right and that she really planned it, around the times when the watchers were coming, talking to them when they did so that they wouldn;t come and physically check her out. After this incident she spent 8 days with 24-hour care. She had 2 days in the 'normal" ward and they sent her home. My husband and I had a meeting with her, the social worker and RN case manager, and one of the things we decided was that we would keep her medicines when she got home, since she flushed all her meds during a blackout/seizure. K agreed to this. They have also started her on 10mgs of Valium, 3 times daily, Keppra 2xs daily and Lamictal,200mg,1 xdaily for seizures, and Luvox.
   She comes home and her behavior swings are constant.  She flies into a rage over everything, especially towards the evening.  The slightest thing sets her off. On Wednesday she wanted her pills and I wouldn't let her have them and she had a major rage. She did settle dowm and later that night I was taking her bath-her father was out. She started screaming at me and banging on the bathroom door saying she was going to break it dowm if I didn't give her her pills. The door has a large mirror on it and I was afraid she was going to break it. I had my cell phone with me and when she said she was going to tear my room up I told her I was going to call the police. That stopped her somewhat, but I later found out that she had taken dramamine, about 50. Thursday night she got made about something else, i can't remember. When I got up at 5.30 I saw a not from her where she said she was so sorry and that we didn;t deserve this,When I looked at it again about 15 minutes later I saw that she had writted the music she wanted at her funeral. Iran to her room and she had sliced her right wrist and had it in a pan of water. We immediately took her to the ER where we spent about 5 hours, 14 stitches in her wrist and 10 stitches in her thigh. The hospital social worker had contacted the pysch hosp, that is connected to the hospital where she had been, and her doctor there asked had we thought about committment to the state mental hospital for long term care, and we agreed to talk about it.  K was taken back to psych hosp. and put in acute ward with 15 minute checks. At 1:30 Frid morning we were called that our daughter had hung herself and an ambulance was taking to the main hospital. We got there before the ambulance, and when she arrive we thought she was dead. Dr, in ER said later he though she was brain dead. Petachie covered her face, won't say more, still a nightmare.She had a grand mal seizure, they don't know if it was from anoxia. No broken neck and MRI ok. Wnated A neuro consult, and awful doc was on call. She was put in ICU and came around on Saturday, getting upst and would not see neuro doc, wanted pain pill, wouldn't have MRI until she'd had 2 injections of valium, got made nurses b/c docs didn't order sleep meds, mad at us, usually me.  On Sunday they were moving her back to psych, hosp. Got very upset at one of her sisters who called her and that led to a tirade, through us out of the room, she had a panic attack, gave her xanaz. She let me come in, and told me she wasn't going back to other place, she wanted to die, she was going to die, she wasn't ever going back to state hosp.  Very paranoid thoughts about people hurtung her, and when she tries to sleep she has to have meds b/c all she can think of is old men raping her.  When she was wheeled downstairs to be taken back to the psych hosp. she tried to run and a security guard got her,. She's still very weak.  Her last words to me were :I hate you."
These was the sweetest baby and child that ever was. She's the middle of 5 children, 3rd of 3 sisters.She easy going, laid back, not very active but loved to be with her friends and family.  Every thing with puberty.  She had mono at 13 that turned into mono-hepatitis and she was sick for 2 years and was in and out of school.  She was diagnosed with Epstein Barr virus at 19, and antibodies to CMV were found in her blood.  As a baby and til about  seven she was chronically ill with ear infections, have 7 sets of tubes,tonsils out, adnoids out twice, and at age 5 hafe some strange virus where she ran a low grade fever about 3 months and we had to pull her out of school for two month to get her well enough to have tonsils out.
Well, now she knows that we're thinking about committing her and she refusing to go. She needs so much help but for now this is all we can do to keep her safe. We're trying to get her on Medicaid/ She needs treatment for the BPD,
she had just gotten into a program at out state Medical School Hospital for BPD and self-mutilators but she is not stable enough to be at home. She needs so much help.  She is such a good person somewhere inside all this, and I feel the seizures have somehow triggered something.  Oh, she's also had three shock treatments in the last 2 weeks. 
Please help if you can,Lulabel