Hi all! I have found myself in a very serious, very depressing situation, and am looking for advice. I know the solution is mine and mine alone, but I'd appreciate some outside perspective. Almost seven years ago I married my husband. At the time he was working a great paying job which required him to travel for eight weeks at a time. Prior to starting this job, and for the duration of our dating life, he had bounced from job to job, never staying anywhere for more than a few months. It was only after I threatened to leave him and kicked him out of our apartment that he found a good job.After getting married, my husband once again quit his job. At the time, and being all of 23, I didn't really have a problem with this, as it seemed he was going to eventually do the correct thing. I kick myself almost constantly for that decision.Flash forward a few years and I'm working full time, and work in retail part time. My husband took out a $25 000 loan to start a computer repair business. No I didn't try to stop him, again I was just too dumb to think he wouldn't follow through with what he said. Needles to say, the business failed and we were in financial ruin.Eventually my husband went back to the company he was with when we got married and we got out of the hole we were in. I went back to just just working one job.Now to the beginning of the end. Things went smoothly until 2012 and we even took a couple vacations together. Suddenly, my husband decided to quit his job, claiming he was about to be laid off.I moved in with my parents for awhile, but eventually went back. My husband worked off and on with another company the rest of 2012 and 2013, finally getting laid off permanently this year. We have had to take out loans from the bank and borrow money from family just too survive. He had a job for three months and got laid off again, and is now refusing to even look for work.When I question him or tell him how disappointed I am, he always throws the fact he's trying in my face. He doesn't help me around the house, refuses to talk about his plans, and berates me for apparently being selfish when I ask him to find work.My husband is so stuck in the past that there is no future in sight. I don't know if I owe it to him to stay, our if I cut my losses and go. I'm not attracted to him, have no respect for him, and dread going home most nights. We have no children, and I'm afraid if I stay with him I never will. He has said multiple times that he is going to do what he wants to do first. I just feel so guilty bc we have so many memories together.Currently it's 3:30pm and he is still asleep. That's his new routine, games all night and sleep all day. His solution is to ask his mom for money, to whom we already owe thousands. It's like it didn't even cross his mind to go work. I'm just do tired of the never ending pattern...