Hello, first off let me say I'm a successful woman in my early 40's with a wonderful husband and kids. We have a wonderful life. But I have issues that stem from a unloving mother and not being able to trust women. My mother has always resented me. She told me I was once the reason she had to stay married to a verbally abusive alcoholic. I'm not going to get into all the details but lets just say she has never ever been there for me nor has she ever been happy for any good things in my life. My siblings treat me the same. I'm the oldest. They all stick together thru thick and thin no matter what horrible thing is said to one other. But me...I get tossed away. I have problems being in friendships because I always feel they will abandon me or toss me away like my own family has.
  I have anger that is always just below the surface because I'm so sad that no one feels I'm worthy of being in their life. My husband and I do many charitable things and I work with rescue horses. Our two sons are successful. I feel for some part that my family is jealous of my life even though i have always shared in my success. taking my sister and niece on trips and spending many vacations with them. We don't live near each other anymore. But when ever on of them are unhappy in their life they toss me aside and I don't hear from them for years on end. I haven't spoken to my mom in over 3 years. She doesn't feel a need to be in touch. The last conversation my husband had with my mom was over a argument on why she chose(didn't have to) to put my horse down on my Birthday he was 31 and she chose to do it on my birthday to stab me in the heart. My mother told my husband that she was "so sick of you People" meaning me and my husband. Those words hurt more than losing my horse I had for over 29 years. 
 How do I get over the anger and mistrust of people. I'm at a loss. I cry a lot. I have no real close friends. If I didn't have my husband and two sons I probably would disappear. I sometimes get so angry I could lash out at anyone. 
 How do I heal myself?