I'm so depressed and guilty. I really can't cope i feel like a monster and iv'e  let everyone down such as family/friends  to this day! Life don't seem worth it now.  in my early years, life was amazing with my family going on vacation and being brought up well, i went o church and was an alter boy. we had a dog which my father rescued from abusers. The dog  sadly passed away a few years later when i was maybe 8-10. When i was either 11-12 (or younger)  i was talked and went with the idea of practicing sexual acts with  another  male friend and he used to say "Let's pretend i'm the girl that you're getting on in school." which lead onto  touching each other and kissing. This really didn't go on for long and it just stopped.  What happens a  year or so later fulls me  greatly with extreme guilt and depression and confusion.  When i was  13 we got a new dog and at this time i went through stages of humping objects like my bed or pillows i believe i was going through puberty until for some reason i placed my self on top of my dog to then lay on top like "dry-humping" i did this on and off for over 2 years as if i was enjoying it and i felt i could get away with it because it "was amazing" i had no idea what i was setting my life for doing these acts.it all stopped after having traumatic break down  and i promised myself this must stop. My parents use to argue a lot and i witnessed a lot of physical violence for many years through out  all this happening by the way.  I'm now 26, traveled different countries, have had sexual relationships with women (never lasted because of what has happened )  and i have a secure job but  I feel a heavy weight in my head of guilt and depression and worry. Do i deserve to be living this lifestyle? I feel wrong to do so. to also  have friends, be around family, animals in general? i feel so guilty to be around these.  I want to live a normal life and be happy, but i feel i've blown it and i'm concerned for my future of it getting worse in my head.  i have just laid out all my confessions and i need help please!