Sorry in advance for the long rant.
 About 16 months ago my husband & I separated (he walked out on me while I was pregnant with our son). We reconciled, split & reconciled again for what we thought was the last time about  6 months ago. My oldest child had been taken May 2011 due to bs reports made by my own mother claiming I was abusing her & at that time I was left with my then disabled 2 yr old daughter & my son who was 7 weeks old.  During all this I was in & out of  contact with the father of my children. During the battle to get her back we got back together & fought it together.  In August my daughter was returned to me & she has been with us since.  We re-located & of course the cause (my abusive mother) hasn't let up.  In Dec 2011 she lost her right to access to my children & within days she contacted police claiming I had assaulted my oldest child even though she lives across town & had NO proof.  She has since gotten involved trying to help our landlord evict us & her grandchildren, whom she claims she loves, yet you can clearly see not.  My middle child doesn't even call her "her grandma" & the kids are all scared of her. 
 Despite all this my husband & I have stayed together & worked at our relationship.  The last few months we have been talking about TTC  another child so l was so excited for 3 Saturdays ago  to come because I was late & having other pregnancy symptoms.  I did a HPT & it came back negative. The tidal wave of disappointment hit so hard & suddenly that I wasn't prepared for it.  I completely broke down & spent hours crying.  I spent awhile talking with my husband later in the day & we agreed we would keep trying but the second he touched me I started crying again & had the hardest time allowing it.  I want a baby with this man so much. Yes we already have children together & each have a child from a previous relationship, but we both feel this incredible need for another child.  We see how quickly our other children are growing & I know that IF my previous problems start again I may not get a chance later so would like to have another now.  With everything my children & I have been through why can't 1 thing happen easily for us? The last 2 years have been  the most difficult years I have ever had to live through & this year is not looking any better. 
 I am such a strong advocate for families affected by CPS/CAS & fight so hard for my children, but my depression is hitting so hard lately with the issues & seeing what my mother is trying to do & I am sure the stress isn't helping any with TTC or my relationship with my husband.  I have suffered from depression for as long as I can remember, have PTSD as well as anxiety & panic attacks. I have a physical disability as well involving my spine & SEVERE chronic pain DAILY. Some days the pain is so severe that I can't get out of bed & I have caught myself wishing for death to relieve me.  If it wasn't for my children I highly doubt I'd still be among the living. My husband knows all this & when I suddenly get into a depressive state or start crying he'll sit there with an attitude asking "what's wrong now?" or just ignore me completely. RARELY does he try to do anything to help & can actually make things MUCH worse by his ignorance & unwillingness to help.  I don't understand why Karma is so intent on punishing me.  I feel so incredibly alone, even though I have my husband & children here. I don't have any of my other family because I chose to marry my husband & they have either tried to destroy my little family or they refuse to get past that I am with him.  Even when we were separated they never bothered with me.  Add on our ignorant neighbor shooting her mouth off & working with my mother they have destroyed 3 businesses I was involved in due to the rumors they started & ended up losing many friends thanks to it as well. So need a new start FAR away from here but I can't afford it.  
 Last night my husband was logged onto facebook on my laptop & didn't log off before handing it back to me.  I clicked on messages thinking I had logged into mine, but instead found myself in his inbox.  I came across SEVERAL questionable messages between him, a bunch of women & a few of his guy friends.  He had been telling his male friend how miserable he is here & how he met a woman who he'd "do" & told him how hot this woman is.  He went on in other messages telling woman how hot they are or how amazing they look.  Getting phone numbers, work locations & addresses.  We have been through this before once when I found messages in my computer from MSN messenger of him telling guy friends that he cheats on me.  I forgave those messages but now feel like an idiot because obviously nothing has changed.  I don't know if he has in fact cheated, but the messages he has been sending to women are inappropriate & he doesn't see anything wrong with it.  He said "I don't ask to see your messages" so I logged in & said here go for it. Not even when we were separated were there messages to ANYONE that were flirting, claiming cheating or saying things that shouldn't be said.  Hell there were NO  messages to men period I believe during that time unless it was a family friend checking in. 
 Do you think I'm over reacting? What would you do? We have 4 kids between us, 3 of which that live with us. The oldest that lives with us has ADHD/ODD & the middle child has Cerebral Palsy. There has ALWAYS been trust issues due to his lies which there have been some VERY big ones, but for the kids I have tried to move on. I can't keep shrugging them off like they are nothing, & I don't want my kids aged from 9 yrs to 10 months to think that lying is ok. 
 HELP please! My depression even with meds isn't letting up, & I feel COMPLETELY alone.
 Thanks for any & all help & again sorry for the long rant.