I have a soon to be 19 year old son that has gotten way out of control with how he treats me.
 March 29, 2009 he watched a friend die ... (there was four boys swimming in a pond in March here in NC --- water was FREEZING ... they all got hyperthermia) and one drowned. He has guilt with that. Even though the final autopsy showed the boys heart had stopped and no matter if he had been gotten to or not, he would have died.  
Then a year later a very close friend of his that practically lived here died of an asthma attack. AND 6 months after that, another close friend passed away from an overdose. (He was one of the four that was swimming the day the first boy drowned) ... So, with that said, he has had a traumatic time with loosing people.
 It was after all this that my son just lost all "sense". He smokes pot, and refuses to see he needs to stop.
He drinks and he and his girlfriend (who lives here with us, she has no family at all, and lost everything - so i let stay here  ----- another story for another day).
 I have clearly stated no pot, no drugs, no alcohol. VERY clearly.
 Well, they drink anyway. And it gets violent with them.
 I have made them leave 3 times ... his dad lets them come back. The last time they were living in his truck and it he asked for help saying he would do anything it took to make it right. I let him back ... (HUGE ... HUGE mistake) ...
 The last couple of years, he has escalated with abuse ...
 about 6 months ago, the mean name callings (F'n B-ch) .... I am a lazy, bad mom .... Cusses at me, puts me down, and as of last night threatened me.
 I have loved him, been there no matter what ... gave him everything. Worked hard to make a good life for him and his brother.
 I have another son (he will be 14 in March) ... he is the exact opposite of my older son. He is respectful and get really mad when his brother treats me the way he does.
 My husband ....... well - is verbally abusive. This is where my oldest has learned alot of what he does to me.
My husband says things and my oldest thinks he also has the right to talk to me like his father. (Neither of them have that right and there is no excuse) ... but ...
 When I get onto my oldest (being lazy - or what ever it may be) it starts an arguement and my husband tells ME to shut up and quit starting things. And I am running my mouth again ... ect ... So - my son sees this as my husband validating him and not me. They both are verbally abusive and many times at the same time.
 I stay in my room most times because it is easier. It is NOT fair ... why do they get to run the house while I have to be a prisoner in my own home?!? Really?
 If i try to talk to my husband ... it starts another argument. He gets defensive about his son. He blames me for everything ... what a bad mom i am, what a bad person i am.  He refuses to hug me, kiss me, sex has not happened in 5+ years ... No companionship at all, nothing. Even with all that I have sacrificed ... all that I have done to help him with the cancer and transplant.
 It is not fair to my youngest ... he is in the middle of all this.
 My husband had liver cancer ... the last 5 years I have stuck right by him and taken care of him. He had a transplant last March and is doing really good now. It was me and my youngest that was there - my oldest no where to be found.  
 I told him to be out by friday (01-17-2014) ... and never come back. He is in the process, but not before he cussed me and told me what a terrible mother I am, etc. He was telling me what he was taking and I could not do anything about it. Then to proceed to tell me he would beat my *** if i tried to stop him.  (LOL - really?!?) His dad might be frail, but I am not. I NEVER ever thought he would be like this ... NEVER. I am not scared ... I am not sure if he would try ... I am sure in the near future - he is going to try it, the way he is escalating ...
 I want so badly to walk away. Let him and his father have it and battle it all out.
 The abuse is just more than I can take anymore. It is from two people now, not just one. I think when it was with just one, it was easier to ignore or "deal" with because i knew there would be a time I could get away when the boys were older.
 I have no where to go or no one to help me. No confidence, no self esteem ...... I have no way out.