I didn't know if this belonged in the depresssion or not but I had to post it here because I am 16 and I had just got out of 4 months of depression because I found out that this guy I was talking to who was like 20 had a girlfriend and was about to use me for sex. As a teen I think I have always worried so much and thought so hard that it actually makes me sick, of course I can only blame this on myself but thats why I came here to get some online help until I see a counselor. 
      I guess I'm basically saying that relationships are making me sad because I feel I will never find what I consider a "boyfriend" because when everytime I start dating a guy I find out sooner or later(and I know they aren't bad people) but they are either about to break up with their girlfriends or are still with them. Even the "good guys" have put me through this situation. Ok so anyways, I met this guy who I didn't necessarily like as a boyfriend but as a friend and it turned out that he likes me more than a friend, I use to play with him at work which was pretending to me that I liked him but to him he really liked me. So obviously he got mad when I told him I liked him as a friend but gradually I decided that he would be great to go out with. 
    He gave me his number and I started asking him questions. My 1st question was: "Have you ever made out before? " and he texted me back on my cell "Of course" and he told me he had 3 ex girlfriends in his whole life. I told him I never necessarily had a boyfriend but I didn't tell him why. So I don't know all of a sudden I became jealous of him(I'm not sure what you call it it was a mixture of sadness, pain, and anger, like the thought of him having a good relationship made me angry because I was like comparing myself. Like I don't feel good enough for him) , not necessarily of his ex-girlfriends but I think I'm jealous of the fact that he considers them his girlfriends and he has made out before. And sometimes I do imagine what they look like. I don't even know nor have I seen his exes but I don't get why I am so jealous of the fact that he has made out before. Then it disturbed that I was jealous of the fact that he even kissed a girl, and I didn't like him to begin with. I tried to tell myself that I can't control that fact and I tell myself I too have kissed a boy but to me making out is like kissing for a long time and I feel I haven't made out so I guess I feel a little insecure and that I feel I have to know how to do these things since he did it(I assume with his other girlfriends, really I don't know) I've never felt this way before and he didn't even know me then, also I am sad because he goes to a different high school form me and his ex does go there. The thought of not having a good boyfriend makes me feel inferior and that I am not good enough or that I am a wierdo, a freak, a loser, that I have no life because I haven't made out I guess, but really making out can be different things. I just don't feel important and I already have a lower self esteem form my so called boyfriends. I have been in high school and my friends talk about their boyfriends but never have I felt this bad about it. I'm just looking for something that will make me happy and I see girls smile when they talk about their boyfriends taking them out and I just see the world as everyone has something I don't have not what I have. Ok more on the different high school, it saddens me that I'm not going to see him over the school year and probably never again because even though I have his number he hasn't been texting me and he is going to graduate this year. I don't know what to do and sometimes I think he will go back to his ex girlfriend or she might want him again because I asked about his ex gf and he told me that she loves him but I don't think he loves her. I just need some help sorting my feelings out because I feel like jello almost. Thank you for reading whoever finishes this!