Hello,
 I am not quite sure where to go as I wanted to ask some of you what you have went through before being diagnosed. My friend who is 27 displays odd behaviors but I am not quite sure if it is schizophrenia or paranoid personality??? He was always very nice in person and then I noticed certain behaviors.
  I will list some of the behaviors or traits that I have noticed
 1. Religious and very judgemental of others - (thinks others are sinners for the most ridiculous things)
 2. Acts very suspicious of other people intentions including friends (thinks people are giving bad advice when in fact they are stating the truth or their honest opinion)
 3. Very hypersensitive to environment (feels they are giving him dirty looks, laughing at him, smirking)
 4. Thinks everyone is jealous (due to his body or intelligence, spiritual life)
 5. Takes comments too personally and thinks comments are directed towards him (when friends says "people" thinks it indirectly applies to him yet does the same when talking about others)
 6. Blames the world for everything and doesn't see his role in anything
 7. Never wrong nor admits to being wrong
 8. Always playing the victim (nothing is ever his fault, has been through alot in life)
 9. Boastful and tells everyone how good he is(only in one on one settings) yet says "But I'm not trying to say I'm a better person" to try to act humble
 10. Paranoia (thinks others are trying to make him mad at times, **** him off )
 11. Is helpful at times (doing favours for other people) but does it because he thinks it will bring him closer to god.
 12. Sensitive to rejection ( says "I had to go anyways" if you initiate to get off of chat before he does, hard to get off the phone when you say you have to go)
 13. Thinks others are acting hostile when they are not (accused me of having a rude "tone" when I clearly do not)
 14. Will not give people the benefit of the doubt and is very irrational (always believes he is right about everything - cannot see another persons view)
 15. When I opened up to him about my anxiety/depression and was going through a rough time pretended like he cared but later threw it in my face and said he suffered more and what I am going through is "nothing" and he suffered way more than me or could even imagine.
 16. Tried to intimidate me through email (saying we you trying to make me fight you over the most minor things such as laughing at him when I wasn't)
 17. When confronted said he didn't say nothing wrong
 18. Believes he has some spiritual power (can tell whether people are good or not by looking at them, seeing stars around people)
 19. Very preachy