I recently got married to my sole mate…Happy News!!!!  Well it goes down hill from here.  He has an 11 year old son and an 8 year old daughter.  I have an 11 year old son and a 6 year old daughter.  It has recently been brought to our attention that his 11 year old son attempted sexual intercourse with his 8 year old sister.  By attempted I mean he stuck his hard penis into her vagina, but when she started to cry because it (obviously) hurt he stopped.  Ok I get that the “definition” of rape is “the unlawful compelling of a woman through physical force or duress to have sexual intercourse” and if he stopped when asked it might be difficult to call it rape….but I’m not buying it.  
 He is an extremely intelligent 11 year old boy; I have often said he is a 30 year old man stuck in an 11 year olds body which even it is oversized for his age.  He is about 5’3”, 150 pounds, and pardon the graphics but has about a 4” penis.  I know this because he has NO modesty at all!!!  He came out of the bathroom after showering one day with nothing on but a smile.  I just so happened to come around the corner at just the WRONG moment and there it was.  I shouted at him to cover himself and continued by saying there are young girls living in this house too, and behavior such as this is completely unacceptable and will not be tolerated.  He responded by saying I was overreacting.  
 Moral to this long story is he knew what he was doing was wrong and his response once “caught” was “I was curious and angry”.  I know it is normal for an 11 year old boy to be curious but once you cross this line it goes much beyond that.  Sexual abuse in any sense is wrong, but there is a BIG difference between rubbing and touching out of curiosity verses penetrating your younger sister with your (very large for your age) penis.  We can’t seem to get a straight answer out of either of them as to exactly how many times this happened.  The best conclusion we have been able to draw is that there were several things that lead up to the penetration.  Such has him “humping” her while lying in bed together, him fondling her, etc.  Since the penetration there has been a couple more time of founding, etc but the penetration only happened once.
 I know there are several questions such as why is he angry, why were the children sleeping in the same bed, etc.  Background is my 11 year old step son was angry about his parents getting separated, and was even angrier that his little sister (the victim) wasn’t angry about it.  It has always been common practice for them to sleep in the same bed together if one or the other of them was frightened for some reason.  Even when their dad (my now husband) still lived at home with them, this was common practice.  He says as they got to be about 7 and 9 he told the mother that he felt they were getting too old to be sleeping together and she responded by saying they had raised good kids with strong Christian values, and they would never do anything inappropriate to one another.  Now that the abuse has happened she continues to use the “Christian” approach and has both of them “dealing with it” by telling them “the devil made me do it”.  Don’t get me wrong I have nothing against religion, but telling children that the devil made them do something so horrible isn’t a healthy way of helping them deal with it nor is it a way of making the boy take responsibility for this horrible act he choose to commit.
 I know I am rambling, but I am so angry myself.  I am angry that this happened to my stepdaughter, I am angry that my stepson is hurting because of the guilt he feels, I am angry that social services justifies it by saying “these things happen and there isn’t’ anything we can do about it, I am just sad and angry all the way around.  
 What I want to know is:
 Is it a safe and healthy situation for both of the children to be allowed to stay in the same house together (even though certain ground rules have been put in place to TRY and prevent it from happening again the mother has to sleep sometimes, and besides each time anything has happened she has been home), or should one or the other be removed from the environment until they can both be counseled?  What my husband and I have proposed to both the mother and the social services is that we take my step-daughter for a while until my step son can get counseling and they can try to get to the bottom of why he did this horrible act and most importantly how capable is he of doing it again, and secondly she can get counseling that is healthy and will allow her to cope and deal with this in a healthy/healing way.  Both refuse.  Are we overreacting?  Would we be causing the children more harm by separating them even though only for a short while?
 If it helps, even before any of this stuff came out my stepdaughter begged us to let her live with us.  When we would ask her why she didn’t want to go home she would just say the typical stuff you expect from kids coming from a split home.  Mommy yells too much, I don’t like Paul (her step dad), my brother is mean, I have someone to play with here (my 6 year old daughter).  In reality I know it is the structure our house offers that she urns for even though she is too young to understand that is what she likes.
 Desperately seeking guidance in KY