Well my body moves before sleeping? IN past it used to move like a frog. Hand legs finger used to jump automaticaly. Other symotons are similar. Today i have been to doctor , Some days before i was over smart or was that my necessity i that i left one medicine and told to doctor today. I was scaring he may be angry but he didnot but still I know i am not well. This disease is so dangrous indeed it so much consfuses that patient feels so well. I am still scaring, How to plaster the sky indeed? Medicine is just an umbrella. Sometime i feel bore why doctor make pendelium . better directly say it never cures keep medicine forever, I never saw anybody get rid of it, May be for some days or some month ok , Poision regrows. Such an expensive medicine. I dont trust mental medicine makes diabities,. Who have already diabities dont needed to make. Take one umbrella and live how long you can live. I am thinking waste of time. I will be automatically disconnected with medicines cause  i cant afford it and everest will pop up again. I read others some are mental from 7 years old, 11 years old, some taking medicine till 20 years , my brother is also taking. He is to be exicted when doctor used to decrease medicine, A new hope comes new enourage comes, and after some period doctor says or gives new medicines. Or one medicine increase another decrease. But bottom line depending on something. Lucky you if u can buy an umbrella. Well taking about paroniod it happens to all. That is how it cures. Ifnot all should be paroniod. I love paroniod. I used to work outisde the city. I was mentally free. physically hard. But that is the most enjoyed life in abroad. when i used to come to city paroniod used to come. sujects used to come, differet god thinking this that used to come, first i used to live in city, i escaped outside city because i felt hard on paranoid later i felt angry and loved it. then shifted to city. It;s like daily life, I go to city sit at coffee shop, and paranoid, but it also on and off, But symotons are same,. same like somebody watching us, or mind sharing, or all same thoughts. At first it was so much hard communication with technology. Subjects comes nonstop, loop happens, repeats, forgets, lost concentration, All happens mental ilness never happens so many things,. Then i reduced some medicine. But i even dont know something has confused me and reducing medicine is just a confusiong or real working, But when i reduced medicine from 200 mg to 100 there was so much huge communication happened. So much message used to come, and i started to take higer doze. and again low, sometime high sometime love, Well i am not sure wil it really help or not,. Now paranoid is not a problem body moves. Why I am not sure? Or i should do more communication, Communication is something like too much thinking, too much repeating, blowing in thoughts,  and that makes mind exercise. Sometimes could go out of control little risky. At the beginning it was very hard. But i didnot find this outside where there is less people. city a happens because of noise. There is another difference betweeen past and present that when i reduce medicine from 200 mg to 100 mg that time when i reached at home, a very strong and power wave used to move on my head and that used to move my body very very voilently i was like a frog whole night very scary. but this time the strength of the wave is little low. and movents is not voilent. When the wave is too high it make dangerous communication . suppsoe if i think one thing it multiplies too many times, when the wave is low it multiplies the thought less times, thus this type paranoid is ok and easy. And when wave strength it high it make me feel somebody putting a very heavy stone over my head. and hard to sleep. but this wave strength is little less thus the weight over my head is also less. that is ok to sleep. next when wave strenght is high on head if i smile it make smile for long time if felt sad makes too much sad, if felt angry makes too much voilent angry and agressive, but when strength is low , angry also little angry, . i think wave is enhancer. Well this is experience , good bad no idea,. BUt if take mediicne all is well, so expensive. If take medicine the wave or head heavy wont happens . if i have purchasing power i will be taking it and will be chef will be educated more. BY taking medicine i was fine i was manager either every thing was smooth. It is so much f.. Every time when medicine reduces sometimes colleges misses job misses, concentration misses. sleepy happens, psyco happens, commiunication happens, body psyco happens, . Today body moves why no idea.