So me and my ex of three years broke up a week before Christmas. We had been fighting so much and he said he was broken. We continued to see each other, having sex etc. He told me he didn't think we would get back together and said to see how this goes though. Everything was fine until I found out he was going out.of state to spend new years and I got really upset and he promised me he would spend new years with me. He hugged me and held me too and said he was sorry that he didn't realize it would upset me so much. After Christmas, I got him a really nice pair of headphones and he got me some nice things we were still okay. 2 days after Christmas though he started acting strange and wouldn't really talk. I got him to bring me a movie a needed, but he brought over more then that. He brought over all my stuff. It was odd. Well I was sitting in the car talking to him and asked if we were still doing new years and he said no, that it was for the best and he was going to go ahead out.of state. I started crying and just went through such an emotion of betrayal that I started slapping him and screaming. He has put me through stuff like this before...I felt like it was my breaking point. I started telling him I hated him and when I finally got out of the car I started kicking it and telling him to ******* leave and never come back. He seemed so scared, and I had never done that before. NEVER!  I feel like such an idiot, I really do. I sent him email tonight telling him I am sorry and that I felt bad to the bottom of mmy heart. I feel like I cant forgive myself though. Do you think over time that he may want to see me again and continue being friends, or did I hurt him and scare him too much. If I pick up the pieces, show I am doing okay, do you think it would be safe to confront him one day and tell him I am sorry face to face. I feel stupid even sending that email. I picked up running again to help with the pain and I quit smoking, something he hated. I can't sleep at night and feel like major crap. How can I get him to trust me again and talked to me. We were not just bf and gf, but best friends too! How can I help with the pain and unforgivingness of myself? So it was so long, thank you!