Hi,
 This is the first time I am seeking help online, and I am really thankful to the people who will take the time to read this.
I've been struggling with depression for a year now, with many ups and downs, mainly due to anxiety, not knowing what to do with my life, feeling utterly lost and crushed by the sense that everything is meaningless. I am 20.
I have been quite an overachiever during my childhood and teenage years, always highest grades in my class and graduating from hs with the highest grades in my school etc.
I then applied for a Medical School (I'm from Europe, where unlike in the US, it is possible to begin medical studies right after hs in some countries).
But I soon began to realize that it wasn't what I wanted to do (even though I still don't know what I want to do). And it's a demanding career, am I ready to spend 9-12 years of my life studying something I don't really like?
The thing is, my mother brought me up as a single parent.
My parents got a nasty divorce when I was 2 or 3. My mother re-married when I was 6 but her husband cheated on her and they divorced 1 year later.
Following this, we suffered from some financial difficulties from when I was 7 to when I was 14.
I only met my father once or twice (he lives in a different country) so I don't really know him, but my mother often told me (when I was younger) that he never loved her, treated her badly (no physical violence), disrespected her. (But I think there must be things she's not telling me because the amount of anger she has toward him, it's insane).
I've been trying to come to terms with it but I still find myself resenting her for taking it out on me: She has the habit of calling me names and being really mean with me whenever I display a personality trait I supposedly have in common with my father.
As you can see, my mother didn't have a very happy life, and she always told me that her biggest wish was to see me succeed in life. So I guess that could be where the overachiever part of me comes from.
She was also emotionally dependent on me and suffers from mild paranoia and hypochondria.
Most of the times, I had to act like the adult in our relationship.
All in all, I had always tried to be a good daughter to her, seeing as how she had been so unlucky in her life. That's why even though the field of study I had chosen wasn't really to my liking, I still tried to make an effort. Because she was so happy and proud when I chose the medical field.
And then, came the burnout: A part of my mind was always saying 'What are you doing? You surely can't be thinking of doing this your whole life?' but I always tried to push harder, thinking that maybe if I kept it up I would get used to it eventually. I didn't.
I was living in dorms and I began skipping more and more classes, my grades began to drop …
I was feeling tired all the time, couldn't get out of bed, couldn't stay awake more than 2 hours without crying. By the time I realized what was happening I was already in too deep.
It hurts, academic failure. But the most painful thing was to face my mother. I didn't want to see the disappointment on her face. I didn't want to be another source of unhappiness in her life, even thought I know I already was, because I am the daughter of my father, and she made it clear that I always reminded her of him.
Eventually, I had to move back with her and it's been hell ever since.
I really need someone I can talk to because I just feel so lost.
But we can't have a proper conversation without it turning into a fight.
I know I can be disagreeable when I am anxious or sad but she feels “assaulted” whenever I say something, even if it's only “Have you seen the keys?”.
And if she's not pleased by what I say, she either ignores me or lashes out completely, there's no in between. I can't tell you how frustrating it is when you ask for help and you just wanna talk to the one adult who you think knows you enough to give you the appropriate counsel and you just find yourself talking to a wall. When I prompt her for an answer she becomes completely hysterical: She shouts, cries, throw and break things, and all hope of conversation is gone.
I've had thoughts of killing myself more than once but I can't do it. It would leave her all alone.
We have relatives, but we aren't close with them at all and they are scattered across the world.
I can't really talk to my friends because they only know the happy-and-outgoing-me and I was so ashamed of my failure I've gone completely off the radar.
I'm planning on getting therapy soon, but it's really really hard for me. I am not used to share my deepest thoughts with people.
The thing is, I can see that my mother could use some therapy too, because she's clearly unhappy.
I've tried to introduce that idea to her and she won't acknowledge that. She keeps saying that psychotherapy is for crazy people (which I clearly am according to her) and that she has no problem whatsoever.
What can I say to make her consider seeing a psychiatrist?