Hello,
 I'm a single female & 30 years old no kids, never been married. I've always suffered from some sort of minor depression, OCD tendencies, anxiety, & severe insomnia. I went through a break up around the holidays in 2013 & that triggered the escalation of my depression. I have 3 college degrees up to a Masters & had plans to relocate this Fall & find a job in a new city to help get me out of this depression. However in June I got a misdemeanor charge of possession of Marijuana. I've been forced to put off my plans to move because of it. Due to this ongoing charge I can't really get hired anywhere outside of min wage job, which won't help me pay off student loans. I decided to go back to school for teacher certification as a means of buying time while this charge is being settled. However I can't go into the classroom until charge dismissed, which could take up to a year. Basically because Marijuana is the only thing I've found that gives me some sort of piece of mind in the evenings, I'm forced to put my whole life on hold for possibly a year. Yes I have a lawyer. I feel like I'm just falling further & further. I spend nearly all night crying & if lucky enough to actually fall asleep I wake up in tears. It literally takes every ounce of energy I have at this point to get out of bed. I'd rather just lie under the covers all day & not do anything. Every time I'm alone, especially each day during my 1 hour commute (one way; 2 hrs total), I'm crying my eyes out. Every second of every day I'm fighting the tears & pain back. I feel like I can't breathe. I feel disconnected from everyone & everything. I hate being back in school! I feel like I'm nothing & thus will amount to nothing. I contemplate suicide almost everyday. I know eitherway I'll never have kids of my own or be married because how can anyone possibly love me?! I feel like a complete failure in life. I'd give anything just to be able to sleep soundly for 8 hrs solid. However Im lucky to get 3 hours max. I'm so tired of being tired ALL the time; believe me, I've tried EVERYTHING meds & natural remedies galore for sleep. I hate taking any sort of prescription drugs, I only use herb (Marijuana) nothing helps with my anxiety, depression & insomnia, but that!! I'm on the verge of giving up entirely because I'm just a waste of space. Sorry if this seems scattered, but just typing what came to mind.