Last June wen I was 18 I went on a holiday with my friends family. I was so energetic back then and full of confidence. Whilst on holiday I was drinking a lot and was having a great time, hungover everyday and seriously dehydrated with it being 36 degres in turkey. 
One the fourth day in I was on a boat trip in extreme heat with no protection drinking alcohol a lot. I was feeling fine and was driving of the boat having fun. On around the third dive I suffered a nose bleed and thought nothing of it and cleaned up and continued to drink. 
We got back to the hotel and just relaxed for a bit. We then went to get a kebab and then go out after but I just didn't feel strong or fully with it.. So I said I was going to call it a night.
That night I woke up around 2am feeling enclosed like I couldn't get out of this place and so alone, I believe it to be a panic attack and had to walk it of for so long.
I got up the next day and must of been dehydrated but stupidly got a coffee. It was the day to now go on a saffarri. Ever since I woke up I just felt so drowsy but I went on the trip. This is the point I was seriously a different person and just sat on the open top bus consentrating on not dying. It got to the point at dinner time where I felt I could no longer have the energy to walk and felt like I could collapse any second. I was confused. I lay down out the way of everyone barely able to talk, I asked for an ambulance and as it being turkey they say to expensive! So I basicly begged for some kind of transport to a hospital! Bearing in mind we was 30 miles away fr anywhere they called for a taxi. I dragged myself in to the taxi and got back to the hotel as the family said it would be best to go there first and see how I feel soon? So I did and I was that fatigue I just lay in bed. I could not eat at this point. I was then woken by a doctor who had benlen called and didn't seem at all like it was critical and if I'm honest I know how it looks.. This lad has been drinking heavy for the past week and its all caught up with him now.. 
I layer in bed for next two days barely managing to eat and serve diarrhea. It was now time to get a taxi to the airport home, I struggled to get to the taxi and had to stop on the way to be sick. I remember nothing of the journey as if I wasn't even there.
I got home and was in bed for days before eventually going to the doctors for bloods and urine and all came back fine!
It has been 7 months now and I struggle to get through everyday life. Depression and anxiety has hit me so hard and I'm that weak I struggle to do the simplest tasks. I can't think for directions no more or anything. I can still feel a big pressure in my head and my eyes. My neck has serious pain everyday and at night my heart races when I try to go to bed. I have been on cit 20mg around 2 months ago but came of them as nothing changed. I just see no future at all and have no pleasure in anything. I just seriously don't understand why this has happened and why i still have it. I do get the worst thoughts but I have to go walk them of and distract myself!I walk around all day like a zombie with no energy and constant light headedness.
Just would like to know if anyone has any similar stories where something like a holiday has triggered this?