I have been married to a high functioning BPD woman (undiagnosed) for five years, and we have a two year old daughter together. I suppose my story is typical, in that when things are good they are wonderful, and when they are bad they are so terrible, confusing, bewildering and disturbing that I do not even know what day it is. Constant verbal and occasional physical abuse, screaming, tantrums, put-downs etc. She can be fine for periods of a few days to a few weeks, and then go to the dark side where I am the devil incarnate and to blame for everything, also for periods lasting a few days to a few months. I have dropped hints that she may need help, and her best friend and her sister, with both of whom I am very close, are also well aware that she has very serious emotional control issues and have tried to discuss them with her, but she absolutely refuses to admit that there is a problem (the closest she has got is the admission that "I know I can be very emotional at times"). I have even chosen the tack that we both have issues and offered to go to get help together, but she always finds a (very flimsy) excuse not to follow this course of action.
 Without going into detail, a couple of recent incidents have once again made me very seriously consider leaving. However, there is the huge issue of our daughter. Generally she is a fantastic mother, but when she is going through a bad period she behaves in ways towards our daughter which I find utterly sickening. She will constantly, and using utterly foul language, tell our two year old in no uncertain terms what a terrible father she has (despite the fact that the day before she might be chastising her for not wanting to play with her "wonderful, amazing daddy"). Also, if our little one is playing up, which often happens, my wife is capable of losing her temper with our daughter as quickly as she does with me. This only lasts for maybe thirty seconds at a burst, but the ferocity of her anger towards a toddler is frightening, and she has handled her physically more roughly than I certainly would. 
 The extra complication is that we live in a country where fathers have virtually no legal rights so custody is a non-starter. Although she mentioned when she threatened to kick me out before (for checking the football scores on my smartphone I think) that if we did split up she would still want me to play a full role in my daughter's life, I am petrified, based both on her current behaviour at times, and the typical reaction of the rejected BPD, that she would attempt to poison my daughter against me in any way she could, and possibly try to block access to my daughter for other members of my family by preventing me from taking my daughter out of the country where we live even for holidays.
 The other issue for me is the financial one, but that is another story for another day. Just to re-iterate, when things are good, which they are around 50% to 60% of the time, I cannot imagine ever wanting to be with another woman as she is everything a man could ever want in terms of her intellect, beauty, warmth, ambitions and general personality which I fell in love with, and still love so much. It' s just that my energy to deal with the bad episodes wears thinner and thinner with each one, to the point that I am terrified that one day I will just snap and hit her, which would of course be a total disaster. Not sure where to go from here, but sadly unless she admits that there is a problem I really do not want to spend the rest of my life in this Jekyll and Hyde relationship. Yet the urge to protect my daughter still over-rides the urge to walk out.
 Any ideas / comments would be very much appreciated!