Hi all,
I posted the following in the Neurology forum but now since it seems to be a stress/depression issue, I am posting here in the hopes that someone else might be (or has) experiencing what I am.  Thanks so much!
I am a 41 year old female with no significant past medical history.  For the past 3 months I have been suffering from lip tingling/numbness, mostly the left lower lip along with my tongue being numb.  These symptoms are there EVERY DAY, they never go away.   I have not lost the ability to taste but eating/drinking/smoking does, most times, aggravate the symptoms.  A few weeks after the mouth symptoms, my hands started to get pins and needles.  First one side, then the other now it can do it simultaneously but this isn't constant some days they don't go numb.  I also have had several episodes of just the pinky tips going numb.  
I have had full blood work up and with the exception of a low carbon dioxide, all else was normal.  My B12 however was 260 which is in the low normal range.  I just had another blood work up that is going to check into that further as well as some other more detailed test although I'm not sure what they are called.  I also had a negative MRI and the films were reviewed by 2 neurologists.  I had a full dental exam and tissue and gums are all healthy.  I do have one tooth that needs a crown but the dentist didn't feel it would cause my symptoms. I also had a full gynecological workup that was normal.  I was getting daily headaches but that seems to have subsided, they are now only occasional.  Yesterday, I had an EMG done and those results were also normal.  I have extreme fatigue but yet I am not sleeping well and I used to be a champion sleeper.  I may have some slight depression since I am coming up on the 1st anniversary of my brothers death.  His death has affected me greatly but since I've never had depression I'm not sure if I do now.  I have been seeing a therapist for the last month or so.   
My first neurologist prescribed Cymbalta 60mg daily, Rozerem and Fioricet.  The rozerem does not help at all with the sleep.  I need to take 2 Fioricet's to make any headaches go away but I find that taking two will make me extremely tired.  As far as the Cymbalta, I don't feel any different mentally but I'm not sure what I'm supposed to feel.  I do work in a stressful job and for the past year have had many additional stressors.  Yesterday the neurologist also prescribed Neurontin 300mg so I will have to see what, if any, effect that will have. 
My primary and the 2 neurologists really don't have a clue what is going on.  Right now they are going with stress/depression since everything else indicates I am very healthy.  Of course, I am grateful for all the negative test results but I can't stand another minute of these lip/tongue symptoms.  I am ready for a mouth transplant!   
Has anyone had any of these symptoms together and were you diagnosed and/or has it gone away?  How long did it last. 
I don't know what else to do. 
Thanking you all in advance! 
Lisa