I have no friends/family. Over the past 6 years (High School) I have accomplished next to nothing, when I leave all I will have is good ATAR. Everyone else has experiences and social skills as well as life friends and happy memories while I do not. I have never had a girlfriend or friends. All I will leave with is an incredible amount of regret and anger. Once I was suggested to take out my anger on punching bags which I can neither afford nor can I take out 6 years and the rest of my life on. I don't have the social skills I was supposed to learn from high school, the rest of my life is going to cop it for that. Any conversations I try to have with people are one sided, it's only me doing the talking sort of thing, they generally want to just end the conversation/leave as quickly as possible. I wish I knew why. Sometimes I wonder if I am retarded, at the point where I can only just not realise my retardedness.
 After much thought, I have deduced what I can do next.
 Kill myself as I'll never get the social skills I need or be able to let go of the last 6 years. The only thing that's stopped me so far is promising myself to kill everyone who has made this amount of time (and therefore the rest of my life) so **** before I get to myself.
See, I even half desire to kill. I never used to be like that, it used to make me literally feel sick, now I just imagine the satisfaction and relief I'd obtain. But I might just make the problem worse and never let go I actually killed. The legal implications of me killing are completely void.
 I could also just kill the ******* to hopefully make me feel better. There are no legal implications, the way I would act the deed is completely uninvestigatable, both physically as well as legally. Perfect crime type.
 Leave. I'm only 16 so there would be a large search for me, and I wouldn't be able to just leave easily. By leave, I mean literally just pack up and go, just travel, hobo it around a bit because of my lack of money. But if I'm going to kill myself and others if I do nothing this is a good choice.
I don't want to leave though, because my final exams are coming up soon, and I want to make sure I can at least go back to something if my life suddenly improves.
 Continue to suffer immensely, which won't go well because I will snap and perform any of the other options.
 Continue to suffer immensely and try to solve it by continuing abusing various substances, which I only began to recently.
 What should I do? Other suggestions are welcome as mine kind of ******* suck.