I just spoke to my doctor about starting Zoloft and I'm so freaked out that I think I'm going to lose my mind! First off I went through the horror of the Paxil withdrawals and I hear that Zoloft is also very hard to get off of. I seem to have issues with anxiety and depression and my doctor seems to think that this will help with both of the issues as Paxil seemed to. Here's the catch though, when I was taking Paxil it totally killed my sex drive and made me very tired. I've tried Wellbutrin for a while and it seems to make me very irritable and doesn't help with my depression but when I took it with Paxil it did seem to keep my energy levels up. I keep hearing that Zoloft will make me tired and cause me to gain weight. I also hear that it seems to have the same sexual side effects that Paxil did even though it's not as strong an SSRI as Paxil. I was just wondering if there was anyone out there who has ever tried the combination of Zoloft and Wellbutrin. I'm really not in a good place in my life and I feel like I just don't have time to keep trying medications that will put me to sleep. Will the Wellbutrin help with that? Right now I'm taking Clonezepam for my anxiety and it totally puts me down for the count. I just seem to be very sensitive to all of the medications that I've tried and if I can't seem to get the combination right then I'll just have to try to work through these issues on my own without any help of antidepressants. So if there's anyone out there who has ever been on the combination of Zoloft and Wellbutrin then please let me know how it worked and especially if they felt tired when they were on Zoloft by itself. I really feel like i'm at the end of my rope. I was doing well for a while and then things everything just seemed to wear off and I feel like I'm back at square one. Horrible anxiety and suicidal thoughts seem to be creeping back into my life and now that I've got a taste of what it was like to feel a little better I feel even worse than I did before by comparison. Is Zoloft another dead end?