Okay,I'm using my sister's account right now (with her permission). I'm her 16 year old sister,by the way.
Alright,my sister was diagnosed with schizophrenia a couple months ago,but I was never told what kind it was. I've been asking and asking and got the same answer each time: "She has schizophrenia;she'll be fine."  Well I'm not going to ask my little sister what kind she has,since she hates herself enough for having it. The symptoms are: 
 1)*Talking,Mimicing* She talks to herself all the 
 time about the weirdest and creepiest things. Like,a 
 train conductor under her bed who watches her sleep 
 every night and wants her to die the same way he 
 did. She has this little silver pocket watch that 
 she carries around all the time. She opens it up and 
 mimics the ticking of it,then tells it that no one 
will ever know that it exists. Also,whenever someone 
says something she will sometimes copy that. If 
 someone calls her a freak,she'll go in the bathroom 
 and stare at herself and scream 'FREAK' at the 
relection for hours. Sometimes I can't understand 
 what the hell she's saying. Yes,we are from Japan 
 but her English is improving by the day if you pay 
 close attention. She'll just use random words. 
 2) *Delusions,Hallucinations* When I'm around Scream 
 she starts talking to someone who is supposedly 
sitting right beside of her. She tells me that she has made friends with 'the little girl who was gased 
 at the Holocaust' and they 'play hide and seek and 
 other fun games' all the time. When a plane goes by 
 she runs and dives under the closest car,bush or 
 other 'safe place' and puts her hands over her ears. When the plane has passed,she starts screaming "THE 
 NAZIS!! THE NAZIS!! THEY WANT ME AND KIRSTEN DEAD!!" 
By the way,Kirsten is 'the little girl who was gased  in the Holocaust'. Scream has also told me the 
adventures she has had with a girl 'who had killed  herself by jumping on a bed of knives', and that 
girl's name is Winter. Scream also tells me of the 
ghosts,demons,spirits and even 'real life' people  running around her room at night,wanting Scream to get up and play or steal from the neighbors. 
Yes,Scream has stolen numerous times from the neighbors. 
 Money,clothes,jewelry,knives,scissors,etc. 
 3) *Random* Scream's baby doll's name is Doom (the 
 doll is a girl) and it looks real. She rocks Doom 
 and sings weird lullabys to her. She even carries it 
 around in public and dresses it in baby 
 clothes,shoes,diapers,blankets,etc. And she has a 
 carseat and carrier for the doll. Scream finds odd 
 things interesting:glass breaking,skin being cut 
 open,etc. Scream enjoys pain,which worries me 
 deeply. She smashes her hands in heavy doors,she 
 cuts her arms,wrists,ankles and stomach open with 
 razors,she scratches herself as hard she can with a 
 screwdriver,etc. 
 What kind of schizophrenia is this? 
 I want her to give the baby doll up;how can I get 
 her to? 
 I hate it when she hurts herself. What can I do to 
 prevent that? 
 Please,please help me. And thank you so much. :)