Hello to everyone on this forum!
 I am terrified that I may have uterine cancer. I had posted here before but never got any response! I would greatly appreciate any input on this matter!!! 
 Here is my story: Back in December 2007 I had some pelvic pain and my dr. send me for an U/S. When the results came in he told me that everything was fine.
Then in March 2008 I had some abnormal bleeding between my periods. I went back to my doctor and he did some testing which came back as a east infection (the first one in my life). I was prescribed meds and I seemed to be fine after that. In May  I had another abnormal bleeding with bad cramping in my left lower abdomen. I went back to my doctor and he sent me once again for an U/S. This time when the results came in he called me and told me that he wanted to speak to me. The report said the following: 
 Increase in thickness of endometrium persists with inhomogeneous texture. The appearances may be due to endometrial hyperplasia but because of the progression of the inhomogeneous texture one should consider the possibility of endometrial malignancy. 
 Left ovary is normal, right is normal in size with poorly defined hypoechoic area. It may represent a resolving fillicle. 
A nabothian cyst is present on cervix.
 So it was taking forever to schedule an appointment with a gyne and I had to take it into my own hands. I went to my doctors office got a refferral for a gyne and along with it they gave me reports from the previous ultrasound, done in December. It got me really scared, I don't have it in front of me right now, but I will write what I remember, things that got me scared:
 Very thick endometrium 2.2 cm. Inhomogeneous texture of endometrium. Free pelvic fluid observed (don't remember the measurements). 
 Did anyone here have anything like that. Does thickness of endometrium of 2.2 cm indicate cancer? Please help, I can't sleep, I can't eat all I do is think that I have cancer and that I am not going to be around much longer!!! I have an appointment with gyne on Monday June 23, but it is still 3 days away. I would be really thankful if anybody could leave comments!! 
 Thank you beforehand.