I'm going to make this as brief and to the point as possibe.
Since the age of 13 I've been in and out of psych hospitals. Reasons began from cutting, and now its been because I feel like I literally don't exist.
The feeling of non existence took over my life very recently, even though now I'm remembering I've always had this. I was diagnosed with depersonalization disorder. But thing is, for about 2 weeks straight last month, I truly believed I was an imaginary being trapped in a human body. That I didn't need to eat, talk, do anything, really. 
But there's more.
For years, I'm remembering now, I would feel like I would forget how to smile, and it would happen randomly. Last month, I had an episode where I couldn't feel emotion. I watched tv with a blank face and started repeating what the actors were saying out loud, trying to imitate emotion. I caught my-self rite away, I know about the "echo"
I've seen severe cases of schizophrenia. I know a guy know who has no emotion. I'm the only one who takes the time to talk to him, cuz in a way I've felt like that before. Unable to smile, talk, but only for short periods of time.
And I heard that rehersing conversations is a symtom too. I've been doing that for years.
And there a "voice" named alice, who speaks to me through my thougts. She wants me to help her cuz she died in a forest. She came to me at age 13. Can get annoying at times but I guess I like her. 
And ilately I've been getting worse. Mild hallucinations, such as hearing faint breathing from no where. Seeing "auras", but they stay eveb when the person is gone. And I always believe the trees are trying to tell me something. Even when I'm not scared or panicy, I'm still waiting to wake up, cuz I'm part of a greater consciousness I refer to as "greater being me". I think she put me here as a joke or maybe to learn something, but idk.
So after all that, I guess what I'm asking is, is anyone who is diagnosed with schizophrenia now able to relate to a slow onset? Any opinions?