He has always been possesive, but now it's to the point of ridiculous.  If I go to the other side of town (I used to live there and have my doctors, mechanic, friends there) he immediately accuses me of any and everything.  If I visit with my neighbor I'm in cahoots with her and talking about him.  He is constantly raising his voice and comes up with the most out of this world accusations...none of them true.  If I stand up for myself then he says "I'm done...we need to figure out what we are going to do"  meaning divorce.  I tell him "go for it" - because actually I really don't care anymore.  Last nite he got home at 10:30 ...no call no nothing...I asked him where he had been and his response was "oh here and there" - then he started putting his supper together (I had eaten at 6 like a normal person) all the while grumbling "I guess I'm on my own" - what I was thinking was DAMN RIGHT - I honestly have only hate for him.  I know it sounds bad, but he has brought it on.  A little while ago I called him because my check engine light is on and I have to take my car through emissions and I didn't know if I should just take it to my mechanic first or try to get it through emissions.  Of course he didn't answer the phone.  So I put a call in to my mechanic (had to leave a message) - then dear hubby calls back and I tell him why I had called, but that I had called my mechanic and that I would probably take my car to emissions and if it fails then my mechanic is less than 1/8 mile away.  He immediately throws a tantrum and tells me I'm being stupid, and that why do I want to go all the way to the other side of town when I can get emissions out where we live.  Well, first I didn't even know there was an emissions place out here, and second if it fails I have to go to the other side of town to my mechanic anyway.  At which time he responds "whatever....there's more to this than you're telling me..do what ever you want" - I simply hung up.  
I'm sorry this is so long.  Got carried away venting.  Thanks for reading.