Hi, my name is Samantha and I'm this is my first post. I'm not sure if I have BPD but recently I have been feeling very manic about my recent breakup. If anyone is willing to read and comment on my story I would be extremely grateful.
Where do I start? I guess with my relationship to my ex. Let's say his name is Cory. I met Cory through a mutual friend in while visiting Boston. At the time I was going to school is Chicago, but was extremely depressed with everything. My choice in a major, my friendships, and the boyfriend I had at the time (I'll discuss this later). Anyways, Cory and I really hit it off. He was really into me and that's what I wanted at the time. We slept together after the first night of meeting, and then I went back to Chicago. We talked everyday for about two months, and then he flew out to see me. It was total bliss. I was so happy with him, so happy to have someone who really liked me. I eventually decided to leave Chicago and move to Boston.
Now, this decision wasn't entirely based on him. I moved in with the friend that introduced us. But having him around was definitely a bonus. I just wanted to take a year off and start my life over. I wasn't thinking about the future. I thought he loved me enough that we would be together for a while.
I then moved in with him last January. It wasn't a great decision but my lease was up, and I wasn't really looking anywhere else. I wasn't thinking about the future at all. I just wanted to be with him.
Long story short, Cory, myself, and two other friends got a house together in September, A month into living together Cory and I broke up.
I don't know how to explain my feelings. I love him, but I am constantly annoyed with him. There are so many things about him that I just wish he would do differently, like how he treats me, but I know that's impossible. I was hanging on to it because I love him, and I love the stability.
So we broke up. He basically was really rude to me for the last month we were together. I tried and tried but I knew I was just annoying him.
The thing is, I moved into the extra room we had in the house. We have still been living together since September.
And that's where the problem is. We are still around each other all of the time. And we have been sleeping together since our breakup.
That's where the problem is. We sleep together, and things are okay. We get along fine. Then there is something that just makes me insanely crazy and jealous. A text from someone, a call. (This stems from a past relationship where my boyfriend cheated on me for a year and a half) I check his phone constantly, and feel such guilt about it. Then I get angry at him for those reasons and we discuss it. Then we sleep together again. This has been the cycle for 4 months.
Recently I've realized I don't want to sleep with him. But I'm doing it for the comfort. I love knowing that he wants to be around me. But does he really? I don't understand his feelings.
Anyways, that just needed to be off of my chest. My real question is this:
Cory is moving to Boston next month. I live an hour and a half away. I am devastated but relieved. He is insistent on remaining friends, because he doesn't have any and I am the only one really close to him. But I don't think I can do it. I feel like this is my opportunity to cut him off.
I cry every day thinking about us. I love him more than anything, but I know he doesn't love me the same, so I also hate him like I can't even explain. I hate him for not loving me as much, I hate him for not treating me well.
Should I continue talking to him? We have all of the same friends so full avoidance is impossible. But not talking to him online, on the phone. I want him to want me, so it's going to be difficult to not initiate conversation all of the time. I'm sick of being pushed around and I think that's what he's doing, wanting to remain friends. It's not good for me. It makes me not want to get out of bed, it makes me want to harm myself (I'm a cutter and bulimic), I need to get over him and to do that I think I should cut it off for good. Any takers?
Thank you for listening.