I got engaged a few months ago. My fiance is my soul mate. We gel very well with each other and I love him more than I love myself. He's an outgoing guy, but as things have progressed, I've noticed a few things that are putting me on the fence. 
 I was married/divorced at 19. I'm 26 now and I only committed because I was sure this is legit. I am very invested in our relationship although we are very different. I'm conservative, he's liberal but we meet in the middle in a lot of ways--religiously and culturally. 
 Just plain and simple, I want to know if I am going to be making a mistake or not. My family is no longer invested in him and they don't trust him. It pains me because although he's imperfect, I'm crazy about him.
 1. He makes promises and breaks them. We have been planning to have our wedding since January. He was not willing to take any real action to planning a wedding or setting a date because he was committed to funding his relative's wedding. He did that, depleted his savings and now has close to nothing for us to have a wedding and wants to do something incredibly simple at home. This is after he got my hopes up, had me look at and visit a venue that was gorgeous. The day he was supposed to put the deposit down he made up some **** and said we're not doing it. Broke my heart. I have a huge ball gown. Ugh.
 2. He recently found out he has genital herpes. He has a pretty dicey past but he regrets it and I don't care to know about his youth because he is done with that part of his life and is looking to start a family. Granted, when he found out, he tried to break things off with me because he believed I deserved better. I didn't let him break up with me. 
 3. Since we have been together, he has been asked to resign from one job and is currently about to be fired from another for lack of performance. He doesn't work much, just enough to get by, and doesn't think that work should be a way of life but rather a way to live. I respect that and I'm not a gold digger, but I don't know that I would feel comfortable being a stay at home mom/wife as he wants me to be if he is not in the right industry that suits his skills or motivates him. 
 4. If I don't agree with him about something, he has to do it his way. Regardless of my feelings. For example, when I told him I feel uncomfortable with him going out with his friend and friend's wife or gf with him being the third wheel he went out with them anyway and basically completely disregarded what I had to say about it. 
 5. He always talks a lot about other women's boobs and *****. Mostly he is joking. When we're out, he's all over me and super attentive but especially if another woman walks by or something. Is this normal? 
 Sometimes I feel a little apprehensive about everything although I love him to death. I just worry if he is going to keep his promises, provide for me, take care of me, and stay faithful to me. I strongly believe divorce is not an option, especially since this is round 2 for me--and him. 
 Can I please have some thoughts? Thanks.