I was diagnosed hypothyroid in May 2013 with no family history of thyroid illness. I have been finding it very hard to cope with things - I left my job in November 2012 because I felt so poorly and my manager did not let me go to the doctors to get my health sorted. I feel that had I have been diagnosed and treated sooner I would never have left.
My family do not understand my illness and my boyfriend just nags me to take my medication. That's his way of understanding.
 Anyway things with my mental health are just so weird and I don't know where to begin. My doctors are convinced what I have is psychological. None of my family know about the problems I have been having as I have been stigmatized in the past by my grandparents as being a nut job who should be locked away in a mental home. Seriously. My grandfather told me that to my face.
 Depression - I get depressed very easily and it comes and goes and starts very suddenly. I used to like drawing in my spare time and write stories which were popular online but due to feeling very low I have not had as much motivation or inspiration as I used to. My doctor has put me on an SSRI, Citalopram, but I haven't noticed any difference at all. I have been on it since the middle of February. I currently see a counselor and he has been helping me lots as he works alongside my thyroid support consultant.
 Derealization - I can spend a lot of time simply staring into space and before I know it, half an hour goes by. I just feel dazed and vacant most of the time when this happens.
 Dreams - I have had lots and lots of weird dreams lately. I can recall one I had involving my thyroid support consultant and myself. She is asking me why I left the thyroid support forum (not on this site) and when I told her the reason why she then told me that I never lost their support - if anything they have lost me and want me to come back.  
 I left the support forum in March due to a misunderstanding and I have never returned. I haven't even spoken to my thyroid support consultant for over a month because I feel so bad about what had happened. I still have questions I need answering but due to what had happened I have not shown my face to the thyroid support forum or any of my fellow sufferers. Gosh I do feel crazy writing this...
 Self-neglect - I have been advised by a nutritionist to adopt a healthier diet plan but this nutritionist I consulted dispensed advice to me that a member on the thyroid support forum did not approve of due to the more holistic approach. This caused a small debate and this person became quite disapproving of me seeing this nutritionist. I created a post which told everyone that I wanted to do things my way and that anyone who disapproved of my decision should just keep their opinions to themselves as I found it upsetting to be criticised in following an alternative approach. I also felt torn between divided opinions. Unfortunately I upset someone who was helping me lots and they now hate me. Now I have lost this support and left that forum I have gone back to my old habits of eating junk food, missing my supplements and have become very nonchalant about how I look and feel. In a way I've started to not care anymore. I didn't even go to the most recent thyroid support meeting even though I had questions I wanted answering.
 Mood swings - I do act up in such bizarre ways and I always have done. I can get angry to happy to sad and back to angry at the drop of a hat. I sign myself up to dating agencies online and start relationships with other men - I was assaulted at 15 years old and have been in a lot of relationships that had no emotional involvement whatsoever, just physical. I was picked on at school for being ugly and unpopular. The boys picked on me because I was ugly, the girls picked on me because I was quiet and had few friends.
 Because of my illness I see an endocrinologist but they have been moving my next appointment further and further away. I feel as though I am never going to get the answers I need and my original appointment was booked for April. I now have to wait until the end of May.
 This may sound all really far-fetched and hard to believe and I don't mind if there is anyone on here who thinks I am being stupid or nasty. I am not breaking down, in fact I am trying very hard to keep myself together but at times I feel as though that in itself is so hard to do.
 :(