My Husband is living with his ex-girlfriend. The separation has been about 1 years and 4 months.  I'm no sure when she moved into my house but am wondering if he has been having an affair? I didn't realize he could do that to me.  I was devastated after 8 years of marriage.  i also had an abortion a few years back because our baby would have Down syndrome.  So I've been depressed and thought he would always be there to support me emotionally.  We argued constantly after we lost the baby.  I didn't think of going to therapy and medication for my depression so it took a toll on the marriage. For a year, I've been blaming myself for the separation.  My husband called, text, and even had phone sex during the year. My husband said he wasn't dating anybody and would never let anybody live in our house.  I thought he wanted to work or out because he would call me every night to say good night and texted me 15 times each day for the past year.  However, one Saturday night right before Christmas I tried to text him when he was going to call to say good night and he didn't reply.  I went over to our house at 12 at night, I know it's late but he said he was working till 11:30p.  I see 2 cars in the drive way.  i rang the bell and ask him who was in our house.  I tried to go in to check on the house and saw that it had other decorations/furniture beside mine.  My husband and I are screaming, I walk into the house and demand who was in the house with him.   My husband finally admitted that his ex girlfriend from high school was sleeping in "our house". His girlfriend called the police because I was causing my domestic battery and I get arrested.  How could my husband be so cold, heartless, lying, manipulating?  I've been known him for 15 years and married 8 years, but why didn't realize he could have an affair. Now I'm wondering if he had been having an affair all these years we've known each other?  He has kept in contact with her through facebook and I always wanted to know why it was so important to him to have her as a Facebook friend?  He kept saying they were just friends!! I am so upset, depress, lost my job because I'm am emotional wreck.  How do I stop thinking about what I did wrong and why he lied?