I have recently joined this group and have posted a few comments. I have much going on in my life that has caused me great pain and suffering but right now I want to focus on a situation with my mom. I was injured in May of this year by a man that I had only been dating a short while. He seemed like the man of my dreams when I first met him but he quickly turned extremely jealous possesive obsessive and all the rest. I had broke things off with him just after Easter and had not seen him in 6 weeks when he came to my home. Needless to say he abused me and left me with a broken back and a complete loss of a good quality of life for the time being. I don't want to get into that too much right now but this man, who had never been in trouble with the law is now sitting in jail awaiting trial which will be taking place later this year. Unfortunatlly, he will probably be out long before I am healed and that is a huge unjustice.
This all has nothing to do with my mom but it will all tie together in a second. First, I don't want to rewrite my whole history with my mom but I have posted several comments with Zoidal if you want to read them and get a better idea of my problem. So now after not seeing or speaking to my mom in almost 2 months she has called me for help. What i neglected to mention in my prior comments is that my mom is a binge alcoholic, which means she doesn't drink all the time, in fact she goes months and has even gone a few years without a drop,but when she starts she can't stop for sometimes days or weeks. That was the case when she left me in the hospital and that is part of what devasted me so much. So now she has checked herself into a temporary rehab center but can only stay for ten days and then she has to leave and wait to get into a center that will help her for 30 days or longer depending on how long they figure she needs. I am proud of her for that and hope that she is able to overcome this illness once and for all. The thing is that she is now asking (A) for me to come down to the place she is at now, to bring her cigarettes and toiletries etc, but I am in a wheelchair for the time being and can't just jump into a vehicle to come to her aide and (B) she wants to stay in my home while she waits to get into the second rehab center. The problem there is that I will be leaving for a few weeks to spend time with one of my daughters and I don't trust leaving my mom here alone. She would never steal anything but my worry is that she will get lonely and end up turning to the bottle and perhaps letting strange people into my house. She did this while I was in the hospital and I had to get friends to go to my house after she left and clean up and get my keys that my mom had left in the mail box. Also, even if I wasn't leaving and she stayed here with me, I would be afraid that if a disagreement happened between her and I she would start drinking again and it would be my fault. I feel that letting her into my home is only setting us both up for failure. I know that she is trying, but at the same time I don't think she is far enough into treatment that she is well enough not to slide off the wagon. and I am afraid that I will just end up some how being the bad guy again. Sort of a damned if you do and damned if you don't situation. As for me going down to the place she is at now to bring her items, I could probably get someone to do it for me, but my friends do so much for me now as it is, that I don't want to have them to do anything extra for me. And if truth be known my closest friends know what shes done in the past and I don't think they would think it was a very good idea and probably wouldn't want to do it. I want to be there for her in her time of need, the problem is I am personally still in a time of need and am really not physically or mentally strong enough to help. Does anyone have any advice as to what I should do?