I have a question this year has been horrible for me and my husband.  It started in March when my husband got his foot ran over by a trash truck. Which fractured two of his two bones and the doctor has now said there is nothing they can do about this.  He will live in severe chronic pain for the rest of his life.  During this whole time I started having women problems which come to find out was a on my ovary that had gotten lodged in my pelvic cavity and my endometriosis went bad.  I had a simple laproscopic procedure done which during the process they had nicked the intestines and they did not know about it.  Needles to say I was not healing from the surgery and went back into the hospital after 8 days they finally figured out what was wrong, but by then I had abcecces from my bowels to my lungs.  Which caused me to be septic and required a laportomy which is when they open you form sternum to pelvic bone.  It took over eight ours in surgery to clear up the infections.  During this process I had also developed pneumonia and was put on a ventilator.  The doctor had given my family a thirty percent chance of surving.  Which I did thankfully and was in the hospital for a month.  They had also given me a colosomy bag to help the intestines heal which is wear you poop in a bag on the outside of your stomach.  They reversed that thankfull in Nov. after another major surgery.  I am healed and everything.  The question is I know have extreme symptoms of stress which I have been put on an antidepressent for.  But my family expects me to be back to normal after everything is healed.  The problem is I have extreme anxiety, high blood pressure now, and quick to anger, loss in sexual activity.  The question is if anyone has any words of wisdom every thing stresses me out even normal day to day activities.  Which is easy when you have a two year old and a six year old.  I am trying to help them get over all of this and everyday is a constatnt struggle and nobody understands.  I also work for my mom which is good, but then you have no one to talk to about your boss if she is your boss. HA HA.  My husband just found out bad news on his foot again and I do not know how much more we can take this year.  If there is helpful advice out there please let me know.  I am physically well and want to be able to help my husband emotionally.  I just want to be my old self.  PS  we are only 28