I'll jump into this, which may take a while.  I'd appreciate all of
your opinions/perspectives.
 First, I'll discuss the relationship and potential red flags.  Then,
I'll discuss my insecurities.  I am trying to figure out if I did
something wrong in my relationship with her--or if the only thing
wrong was really her potential BPD.
 We dated for about two months, and the relationship was a definite
emotional rollercoaster.  I'm in my late twenties, and she's a little
younger than I am.  I have been single or in shorter relationships.
She's been in longer term relationships, which I thought was a
positive thing in that she could teach me a thing or two about being
in longer term relationships.  There were a number of red flags
looking back, and looking back one of them is that she seems to swing
from one relationship to the next, and usually back and forth, keeping
at least two guys interested at once as far as I've seen(more about
that later).  When we first started dating, she continued to be
friends with a guy who she dated as a rebound from her most recent ex.
 He still wanted to be with her, and I thought it was mean for her to
continue to be friends with him.  She said that because they shared
the same interests she wanted to remain friends.
 I fell for her hard.  She's beautiful, smart, and intelligent.  I'm a
new therapist, and she seemed to be very in touch with her feelings
and good at articulating herself emotionally.  I was attracted to
this.
 Another potential red flag is that I felt pressure from her to have
sex soon after we started seeing each othe.  I didn't want to since
I've had short flings and wanted to take this slow.  She started to
cry and said she felt like i didn't like her. I was nervous, but the
relationship progressed quickly because i either felt like i had to go
at her pace or the whole thing might end. The sex was amazing, and I
felt close to her.  She made me feel like I could do anything I wanted
with her sexually, and she was very uninhibited about sex.    She was
also very directive about sex, at times telling me exactly what she
wanted.  This is not the way I am at all, and was a little
uncomfortable for me, but I appreciated her honesty.  She did get
angry when I didn't please her sexually, and she thought it wasn't
fair for me to stop after I was done.  This is an example of an area
in which I recognize I was wrong and corrected my behavior.  I have
been single for most of my life, and so I recognize I'm out of
practice with relationships.
 Whenever I tried to express my own opinion on what I thought we might
do(offer alternatives), or if I couldn't see her for some reason, the
response she gave me was that maybe I couldn't satisfy her needs or
didn't know what a relationship should be like and we shouldn't date.
Because i wanted to be with her, I tried to give her what she wanted.
At the same time, I didn't want to feel like i was walking on
eggshells all the time, But the reality was i was nervous stating my
opinion around her because of the effect it might have if her opinion
was different. She made me feel like there was something wrong with
me, and that I should have swallowed my pride and do what she wanted
to do.  This is another area where my insecurities shine through.  I
think I can be stubborn and I enjoy things happening my way.  Often,
I'll offer alternatives (ie., we could go to this other place for
dinner) which she interpreted as me trying to do things my way.  I
explained I was just trying to be helpful, but she felt like she had
to fight me to get things her way.  I wanted to be able to tell her my
opinion about things, and then I would be happy to do what she wanted
to do or to compromise, but I didn't like feeling like I had done
something wrong for offering my opinion.
 She did give me the impression that she wanted me to be honest with
her if something was bothering her.  Once, she asked me if something
was bothering me during lunch, and I said no even though something was
bothering me.  After I admitted something was wrong, she got angry at
me for lying to her.  Ten minutes later, I finally got to tell her
what was on my mind.  She also got angry at me for asking her to
repeat something she said during the same conversation.  When I later
told her she might have to repeat herself around me sometimes, she
said alright begrudgingly, but said I wasn't looking at her when she
was talking, which was not ok with her.  This is an example of how she
would spin her actions back on something I had done wrong.  Sometimes,
if I thought she had done something wrong, she would say "you're
right, you're a better person that I am, I'm a bad person."
 Another red flag: a couple of weeks in, I noticed we were hanging out
or together all of the time.  I told her that due to my busy schedule,
I need time to be alone especially after very long, busy, and draining
days.  At the time, she understood that in order for me to be fully
present with her I need time to be alone, but did not want to set up
"boundaries" about what days of the week we might hang out.  Then,
less than a week later, she got very upset when I did not respond to
her texts in which she stated she missed me by wanting to hang out
with her even though she had said she understood that I was busy a
little while earlier(she had been free that whole day, and I had been
busy).  She said me asking for space was me trying to control the
relationship, and I started to think she might be right.  She said me
asking to not hang out all of the time reminded her of her ex.  I now
wonder if I was too forceful in asking for space.  She also explained
that partners may hang out less as the relationship progresses, but at
the beginning hanging out a lot is "normal."  I got the sense from her
that she was afraid to spend any time alone, but she would never own
this, and turned it into my problem of wanting too much space.  Being
afraid of intimacy is indeed something that's pretty real for me(I
told her I was afraid of getting hurt), so she hit on another
insecurity of mine.  The above illustrates how I never knew when she
was going to get upset, and so when we weren't together I was nervous
about what might happen if I didn't see her before she wanted to see
me.  I hung out with her more than I might otherwise like because I
was afraid she might get upset.  Even though she might have said to me
that it's ok if we don't hang out tonight, the reality was that if we
didn't, it was pretty likely she would send a mean message to me late
at night saying something like "i'm angry at you.  i want to text you
but i'm afraid to because i don't want you to think i'm clingy.  you
put us in a bad situation and i don't like it."