I was diagnosed with BPD just about two years ago when I was 21. I was in a lot of pain and suffering by the time I finally when to the psychiatrist. I was quite angry, impulsive and unstable as a child. I was obsessed with suffering and when I felt low, it was really low. (Saying this there are of course times when I was happy). Things began to get really bad about three years ago. 
 It started with when I was drunk, I just went insane. Screaming at people - abusing them, running away, trying to hurt myself. There were countless times I cut myself with knives, broken glass and tried to throw myself out windows or into the canal. Then it started happening to me when I was sober. I was working a 9 -5 job and was up early every morning. I would rarely see my house mates and on weekends I would spend my days alone because the others worked nights and weekends. I felt so alone and so depressed. I hated my job because I had started to have terrible anxiety and leaving the house was so difficult, I was beginning to fall apart.
 Then after about four months I began to meltdown. I walked out of my job, it was just before Christmas. After that things got worse. I would drink, take off my brace and run down the road, risking making the bone in my bag slide. Every night I was cutting myself and I now have permanent razor scars on all over my body. Nobody wanted to know me and I was losing all of my friends. Eventually after a few months I went for help and found out I had BPD.
 Things got much better, I refused therapy as the services provided in my country are abysmal and refused medication. It helped even just knowing what was wrong. Slowly but surely its three years later, I have all of my friends back, and I have won the respect of my family back again. 
 The only problem is I'm starting to get worse. I am beginning to loose my grasp on reality. I'm not sure what it real because my mind is warping things. I'm screwing up relations with men because one minute I'm mad about them, the next I can't even speak to them. I feel so empty all the time. One minute I may be fine the next I'm thinking about cutting myself. I have cut myself a few times recently. I fantasize about breaking one of my arms. The anxiety is definitely back and its killing me and i'm so paranoid all the time.
 its really helped me to write this even it no one reads or replies. I wrote a piece earlier about how I felt..I would love to hear your thoughts on it and also if you have any advice on how to stop myself from having another meltdown.
 My mind has launched the seemingly inevitable process of failure. Reality is slipping from my grasp; I live in existences of my own creation, existences as interchangeable as the dynamic reactions of an ailing mind. Reality unravels itself with each prolific image the inner eye projects, as every waking moment I dream. Presumably tangible fabrications swiftly weave to mend the dropped stitches, to quench the ever-gaping fissures. The tapestry now warped with various illusive memories is woven with unreal perceptions, dreams and goals. The original piece a sad shadow, teased through a nightmarish image of insanity.