I have been with my boyfriend for 3 years and his mom hates me big time. She has since day one. Lately things have gotten worse. I am 9 weeks pregnant and when she was told she yelled at my boyfriend saying what the hell is your problem I told you to get rid of her. Then you go and KNOCK HER UP. We live with his mom at the moment. Yesterday I went to the doctors and had my first ultrasound with my mom it was such a good day. UNTIL I got home and told my boyfriend that I had to go back monday for a 3 hour sugar testing. He asked if I was going be myself. Before I could get a word out she said I dont see why the hell not (after a week of being extremly rude to me) and it pissed me off and then my boyfriend and I get into it because he says I need to grow up and then she has to add her 2 cents in our convo. by saying she doesnt see why I need someone to go to the doctors with me she doesnt need anyone to hold her hand. I say its not that i want someone to hold my hand I will have to sit there for 3 hours and I didnt want to be board. Long story short we are all argueing now and I leave and go to my grandma's house and my boyfriend leave a help a friend work on his house. When I got home i noticed that everything of mine that was in other rooms of the house was just thrown into my room. Then today (day after the fight) She gets home from work and as soon as my boyfriend leave to go to work she throws some mail of mine and his and my keys on my nightstand and she here is your **** so you cant say I lost it. (by the way i have never said she has lost anything of mine) So I text my boyfriend and tell him what happened. He calls her and jumps her *** she tells him I lie whats new. So he calls me and jumps my ***. He acts like everything is my fault and she is a 70 year old woman and i am 20 she needs to grow up. Now he is talking about leaving me and frankly It might be a good thing to get out of this house but i really dont want to lose my love and my baby's daddy but I just dont know what to do. I think she acts like that because she knows it put stress on our relationship and hopes we will break up. PLEASE HELP I AM AT A STANDSTILL.