Hello, I need some advice!
 MY BACKGROUND:
I am a 29 year old female.  I have been having left upper quad. abdominal pain for about 3 years. Last year I had a slightly elevated CA 19-9 of about 55 U/ml.  I went to a physican and I was told that I was to young to have pancreatic cancer and something else is elevating it.  They did an abdominal MRI in 06/07 with and without contrast. The also did a vaginal ultrasound of my uterus because my physican said that endometriosis could falsely elevate it.  The MRI and vaginal ultrasound came back fine.  I also had a breast exam (not mamogram), because my physican said that breast cancer can also give a false high CA 19-9.  My doctor felt no unusally lumps in my breast.
Since 6/07 I have had an obstructed bowel, constipation, and still continued abdominal pain.  I had a colonoscopy, which took me two days to prep (2 gallons of go lytley before I had a bowel movement). My colonoscopy came back normal.  I also had a upper GI scope(through my mouth) and that came back normal.  I have also been tested for celiac disease and that came back normal. I also was tested to cystic fibrosis and that was normal.
Also, all other blood test were normal, CBC, amylase, lipase, liver enzymes, etc.
So after all this work-up my physican has made me believe that I am crazy and I making all these symtoms up in my head, so I went to another physican to get a second opinion just recently and this is the findings:
 For the past 6 weeks I have been getting CA 19-9 done every 2-4 weeks and it's been slowing increasing:
My initial in 06/07 = 55 U/ml
6 weeks ago = 77 U/ml
4 weeks ago = 115 U/ml
Last week = 150 U/ml
 Now my second opinion physican is concerned because of all the GI problems I have had and the elevating of the CA 19-9 so he referred to a GI doctor that I will be seeing in 2 weeks.
 MY QUESTIONS:
What will my GI doctor do?  Am I too young to have pancreatic cancer?  Is there anything else aside from the work-up already done on me that can give a false high?  Why wasn't my pancreas checked? Is pancreatic cancer a possiblitiy?