I just had my first appointment with a psychiatrist a few days ago. I sought help through my family doc because even though I've been experiencing serious mood swings all my life along with depression, self harm fantasies and insomnia, the self harm fantasies have gotten really strong lately and are worst when I'm not sleeping and I hadn't been sleeping. 
 Family doc (it was the first time I ever told her about this - I'm 35) wanted to prescribe Celexa for anxiety and depression but thought there might be something else going on and worried that I could be bipolar in which case the Celexa could have made me worse. 
 Saw the psychiatrist and she said she think I have an unstable mood disorder but not necessarily bipolar but needs to get to know me better and talk to my partner (husband) before she would feel confident diagnosing anything since she said what it going on with me can be difficult to get to the bottom of. She has instructed me to mood journal, exercise more, have some massage therapy if I can afford it and try going to the local swimming pool to relax in the spa when I'm feeling anxious. Because my symptoms are severe right now and therapy will take time, she wants me to start to take seroquel. The psych doc is going to be out of the country and made an appointment for me at end of april when she is back and in the mean time I'll see my family doc and titrate up the seroquel from the very low dose of 1/4 of a 25mg tab per day. She said to go up very very slowly and stop increasing if I feel bad, dizzy, zonked out etc. She encouraged me to read about the drug first. I have and the main side effect that terrifies me is weight gain. I have about 50 pounds to lose. Weight is, I believe, a major cause of unhappiness for me. I was bulimic in high school. 
 When I googled unstable mood I found BPD and reading the DMV diagnoses ALL of the symptoms fit me well. I started crying it fit so well and I had never even considered it before. I didn't even know these things were anything different than me just completely sucking at dealing with life. I am a PhD student and my usual sort of sub par coping skills have been totally overwhelmed by this new stress and I've been having big cycles of motivated but erratic interspersed with crashing horribly into depression for almost two years now. I hate myself more than ever, verbally abuse my husband (during this it is like I'm watching myself from the outside hating it even while I do it), I have turned totally hateful towards a few people in my life and others I'm oversharing with and feeling totally embarrassed about that. I am sometimes convinced that my supervisor and everyone around me hates me and that makes me want terrible things to happen to them (which even to me feels like a weird reaction to that but I can't seem to help it. I would rather feel sad about it but it is more like a confused rage).  I have always felt sort of unstable and constantly wanting to reinvent myself thinking it will be better if I were someone different but I can never make up my mind about who I want to be or I think I do and then change my mind dramatically after I start on a particular path. I can have stong beliefs about what I "stand for" one day and feel the opposite the next and then I feel like I hate myself for being so indecisive/and changeable.
 Lately though it is so intense that I feel really crazy. The overwhelming urge to stab myself in the stomach (not because I want to do it but because it seems like it would feel really good if I could do that and not die) is scaring the heck out of me, but I'm scared to take seroquel, gain a lot of weight and feel worse. The one thing I'm feeling good about these days is that I started the south beach diet and it is working and helping me to feel better so I think I already have metabolic disorder to some extent.  Can anyone out there offer some input. I will see my family doc on Tuesday but haven't filled the seroquel script yet because I'm scared of it.