I hate my parents, simple as that. They make me want to kill myself. Usually it is being bullied at school that makes teenagers suicidal, not being bullied by their parents! I am an extremely good rugby player, that is not my words those are the words of my coach. The deputy head at my school is eager to see me have a scholarship at a school on the mainland. I spend my whole time training if I'm not at school, I am in three rugby teams and two football teams. I have been asked to join another team but my parents can't be bothered going away with me. They always make me cry. I hate my mum the most. She thinks she knows so much about rugby or about electronics but all she does it talk out of her arse. My dad and I can spend hours alone together and not say a single word. I have two sisters and both of my sisters have cocked up their lives and made a mess of everything, both also left school. I have been in school for a couple of years now and I have already done better then they did. My teachers love me, and although I spend 60% of my time training I still manage to get fantastic grades and maintain friendships. Then when I get home and I'm exhausted they expect me to do more. I eat more calories, which I am suppose to since I am a teenager and I'm growing, and I am doing so much exercise and my dad calls me fat. They don't understand how hard I work, and constantly make me cry. I have tried to commit suicide once but failed. They are also so cheap. They once bought me a little cake to say sorry for being so mean, and after looking at it I realised they had bought one that had been marked down in the shop and had scratched the tag of it. They also won't spend more then £60 on my Christmas present. I am more responsible, and just generally better then both my sisters who were smoking at my age, but yet they constantly talk about my sisters, maybe it's because I'm not a girlie girl, I don't know. My friends are the only ones keeping me alive, literally. What can I do? And don't say, just sit down and talk to them, I tried and they just laughed and accused me of attention seeking.