My symptoms started 11 days ago.  I was jumping rope bare foot on the cement quite hard and fast.  Each time I landed I could feel a pain in my head that I attributed to the fact that I was stuffy from a cold and gave it no further thought.  Later that evening I started noticing a periodic short discharge of pain in the back left occipital region of my head.  The next day once the pain hadn't yet went away I thought I should start a headache journal.  The pain lasts for only half a second at a time and then goes away.  However, it comes roughly every 4-10 minutes all day, every day for the past 11 days.  Additionally I am concerned b/c the pains are not in a single location anymore and can show up in other areas as well such as the top left or top right side of my head.  No more than one area hurts at any given time.  The intensity of the pain is rarely any worse than a 1.5/10 but I've recorded a very small handful up to a 3.  I have previous history of head trauma but have been asymptomatic for years.  Approximately 12 years ago when in high school I got my head hit very hard by another kid.  This knocked me unconscious and I've been told he hit me several more times while I was down.  When I came to I vividly recall that I was still convulsing as I was coming awake.  This ended shortly after and I was quickly able to regain my ability to move around.  Since that happened I've never really had headaches or any issue that would've reminded me of it.  Then again around 4 years ago a very heavy box (15-20 pounds) fell on the back of my head in a work accident.  This led to ongoing period pain that was treated and resolved by physical therapy and posture correction.  For the past 3.5 years I have been completely asymptomatic of nearly any head pain/sensations all together.  This makes the current events concerning for me and I don't know what is going on.  I went to see my GP and he is referring me to a neurologist but that isn't until October 10th of this year.  I walk/jog 4-6 miles every evening even now and this doesn't seem to aggrevate my symptoms.  In fact, what is strange is that I usually feel better during exercise than any other time of the day.  Based on this I'm less likely to believe it is related to an aneurysm or a tumor but I'm definitely not a medical professional.  Anyone have any information that may be useful?  I've tried so hard to find similar symptoms online but nothing has stood out to me as being strongly similar to my description.  Thank you in advance for anything that you can contribute.