I'm always afraid something bad will happen to me, someone's gonna yell at me etc. My imagination runs wild but can feel very real at times. Years of anxiety and depression have drained my defenses and I'm startled by even small things much less bigger ones. A big issue for me is feeling like I can't stand up for myself or act co fident anymore. Putting on a false front for years has exhausted me as well. I have a friend that has never really listened to how I feel. They know I have depression and panic attacks but it's been a case of judgement getting more apparent over time. It's like they don't think I've done enough to help myself and also my problems have been treated flippantly and even used for jokes at my expense. Now this friend has had fibromyalgia for Yeats and the symptoms have become progressively worse including having to leave the workforce because of it. I thought the limitations would make a lightbulb go off and they'd realize, oh yeah, you may not be able to see a condition, there may not be crutches or a wheelchair to make it visible, but yes it's real. It didn't go that way, and I feel more judged and made fun of than ever. With all the dramas in this person's life that I've listened to for years, I've never felt like I could call them and just talk about how bad I feel. Just talk without having to change my feelings or snap out of it. I guess their problems are considered nor,al while mine are a never ending irritation, mind you, I realize that having depression combined with anxiety can be a drain on people. But damn, really I've held in more than I've expressed. I'm tired of making exuses  for myself defending my limitations. This person has almost made a sport out of finding the fault in my own stars while their own narcissism is off limits. Like I said, I seem to be afraid of my own anger and or taking up for myself. It's like if I let go and point out the hypocrisy and issues I've had with their two faced patterns something will explode or I'll have a total nervous breakdown if I let go and say it like I see it. They've had plenty of their say, and I'm angry. I try to tell myself to let go but I'm human. I guess I'll have to let God fight my battles because this awful illness has taken all my confidence. Is there anyone else out therenthat feels like they'll implode if they try to stand up for themselves?