Hello all,
My girlfriend was admitted to a behavioral health unit at our local hospital because she said she was suicidal during a panic attack.  She was there for a few days and had panic the whole time because the environment was scary.  To help with the side effects they gave here Geodon because she was having psychosis during the attacks (which is the only time she has signs of psychosis .  They started her on 20mg the first day, 40mg the next and then when she checked out they gave her a full script at 60mg.  She only took one of the 60mg and the side effects were too much to deal with, the hot flashes and confusion were just too much.  The first day without it was hell, still having the hot flashes and feeling extremely weak.  The next day was slightly better but not much, still hot but very confused.  Yesterday she woke up in the morning, was able to call the doc only for him to say that since she wasn't his patient any more there was nothing he could do.  She was doing okay in the morning, a little slow but better.  After we drove around got a little food in her, around 3pm she started getting confused and it was a downward spiral the rest of the evening until she just flat fell asleep.  This morning she woke up was feeling quite a bit better, able to get around still a little confused, but knew what she wanted.  Around 12 she decided to take a nap because she was feeling exhausted   She woke up around 4 and was extremely confused and made me turn the tv because it was all just too much.  We had such hope after this morning but now she says that mentally this afternoon has been the worst.  It's been four days since she took the last one.  She feels as if there is no end, I know by reading others experiences that is a common theme but how much longer will she have to endure this?  She only took the "medicine/poison" for three days.  Is there anything we can do to help with the withdrawals?  The confusion is the absolute worst.  Also why is it that she seems so much better in the mornings but when the afternoon hits things go downhill?  I know this is asking a lot of questions but we are at a loss now.
 While she was there they started her on 50mg Zoloft and upped her Klon from .5mg to 1mg.  Thank god for the Zoloft and the 1mg Klon, otherwise it would be all of this and panic attacks since she is so scared.
 She also asked that since it's been four days since she took it, if it would help to smoke pot to calm things down.  I know it's a strange question but maybe someone has tried it and has had success.
 Thank you in advance for your advice and I am so so so so sorry for anyone that has to endure this and anyone that is currently on Geodon(AKA the devils drug) and will one day have to get off it.