My 32 year old daughter has given me 2 wonderful grandsons ages 2 and 3 by her long time boyfriend, who is obviously suffering from some type of paranoia.  His father is a diagnosed Sociopath, his father got him addicted to crystal meth when he was 13 years old, he is now 33.  He is undiagnosed but he believes the rest of the world talks in code, and often his obsession is learning the code so that he can know what people really mean when they say something.  He thinks that when people scratch their back or stretch their arms there is a hidden meaning. He has many delusions too many to mention.  My daughter has recently told him until he seeks medical help for his addiction and mental problems she does not want contact with him.  He is calling the police at all hours of the night and somehow getting them to come to our house (my daughter lives with my husband and I) to check if she is alive.  In the 8 years they have been together he has gotten many very good jobs, because he is very talented and intelligent, but he cannot hold them longer than a couple of weeks because he always believes they are conspiring against him so he ends up quitting. He recently has gotten worse and tried to run her off the road with his car.  My 3 year old grandson said "why is daddy trying to kill us".  My daughter included this incident and the 118 text messages of his ranting's that were obviously delusional in a restraining order request.  The judge denied it.  I fear for him and I fear for her.  His mother also tried to get him committed  when the police arrived there at his house they said they woke him up and he convinced them that all his phone calls to the police was just a genuine concern for my daughter.  Even though he had been to our house several times that day and seen her alive and well, he still called the police and told them he thinks something has happened to her.  We have tried everything we know, I cannot sleep with worry about where this is going to go.  We cannot get a protective order his mother tried and failed to get him evaluated, and he does not think anything is wrong with him. Where can I go what can I do, how can we convince him to get help?  My father was a diagnosed Paranoid Schizophrenic, when I was 4 years old I remember being in the car with my siblings all screaming and crying because my Dad said he was going to drive us all into the lake.  It ended in a police car chase and a wreck.  I have great fears that because my daughters ex boyfriend is fixated on her and the kids that he will harm them.