The pain I feel is unbearable. I have been seeing the same person 5 years mostly consistent. we have broken up for two weeks at the most with out talking. The longest we were separated was around nine months, when I dated someone else. When I broke up with him to see someone else he came back in two weeks and I just dated two guys. We have been through illnesses and cheating. Family members dying. We have been building each other up and tearing one another down for years. The relationship was very codependent. The problem now is it is over and I feel as though I have lost a lover and my best friend. I feel as though someone has died very close to me. We broke up the day after Christmas and every day I have done something to make it worse. Previous times I have attempted suicide. That is awful, I am ashamed to admit that. I don't know how to turn off loving him. I sleep and dream that we are ok and I wake up to the opposite. He has me currently blocked from everything. The day after Christmas was a really bad fight we fought physically and he broke two phones with two year contracts in my name. He is the one with the car who was driving me to work. We lived together. Yesterday I found out that the waitress I was always worried that he would cheat on me for was talking to him. I didn't want to do anything about it, but I made everything worse. The waitress for the time being does not want to sleep with him, but I am sure they will patch things up.I have nearly lost my job because I have been too stressed to sit still in the call center where I work. I have isolated myself, partially because we were always together and there wasn't much need to spend time with a lot of other people and partially because all I want to talk about is this break up. I am in debt. I am heartbroken I am afraid of making things worse further. I cannot stand to think that he will be happier than me and I cannot figure out how to make myself happy. I need some guidance. I need to know how to pick up and keep going, because I am sure he is never coming back. I have acted so pathetically and crazy At this point he has told me that he hates me and hopes I die. I have said it to him. I know I don't mean it. I just know that it is over, and I don't know what to do next. Suggestions?