Is there a treatment for me?  about a month ago i took something called zyprexa.  it was given to me but i shouldve never taken it.  it was not for me at all. the next day at school i was still feeling weird from the pill.  i did not want to even be at school because i did not feel like myself and i was suspecting something awful was going to happen.  it did and now, im worse that ever.  what happened was me and some friends skipped lunch to go smoke some marijuana.  after smoking the marijuana i began to feel very very weird and i insisted on noone seeing me at lunch.  i knew somethin was wrong and i was just waiting for pple to notice it.  i didnt speak all class period and my classmated were all like jeffrey whats wrong why arent u talking.  i could barely talk or interact with anyone.  i felt dumb and slow and my brain felt very awkward.  like it wasnt working right and it sort of hurt.  its been a month since ive done this and i believe i am getting worse day by day.  i am experiencing very weird feelings and emotions. at times i feel like my self for only a little while but still feel somewhat slow when i am myself the rest of the day is just horrible.  after feeling like myself i just crash and go in that same bad place where i feel dumb slow and cannot interact so i isolate myself so noone can see me this way.  other times during the day i do not even feel like myself i feel and act like someone totally different, but still feeling slow and aggravated i push on not knowing what else to do.  at other times this is the worst, i feel not my age my head is the age of a younger me and my body is still the same
i think young thoughts and act as if i was younger.  i cannot control this at all at it scares me to death what can i do to heal my brain please someone help me with the right medicine please i have tried abilify...not for me.  i need a medicince thats going to get me back to me which i loved being.  if i could take that day back id do it for a million dollars. please doctors or some JUST PLEASE HELP ME i cant live like this any longer. id rather die than live the rest of my life this way its awful....HELP