Hi everyone. Im currently 17 years old but got pregnant at age 16. Im having a little boy in only three short months. Im in need of advice.  My boyfriend lives here in Florida but he lives with his friends dad that he has known since he was 2 & his parents live in Michigan.  His friends dad is unaware that Im pregnant and he refuses to tell him because he is afraid of being kicked out and leaving his child and i behind. He wants me to move to Michigan and live with his family when i grduate school in November. I was unsure as to whether i should pick up and leave all ive ever known behind here in Florida to go live with the boy i love.  The problem is, Ive only met his parents twice whrn they came to visit and my family and his family do not get along. Ive never been to Michigan and I know absolutely no one there. If i go, my parents will never speak to me again and if anything happened between him and i up in Michigan  then i would not be able to come back and live with my parents. Aside from that, my mom spoke with an attorney and said that if i go up there without a custody agreement and the baby is born there, i will not be able to bring the baby back to Florida without it being considered kidnapping because we will both be minors, we arent married, and he will be a resident of Michigan. Ive heard from my mother and father that his parents claimed they are going to try and get custody of the baby, but im unsure if thats actually true.  My boyfriends mother has already taken it upon herself to buy all the baby furniture and everything for up there and pay for an attorney when I get up there. My mom and I have already gotten everything here as well though for the baby.  My boyfriend is now claiming that if I dont go, he is going to move back anyways because he will never see the baby since my mom doesnt allow him over at our house any longer due to the issues she has with his mother. Up there, we would have a car and both have jobs. Here, i have a job and he rides a bike and i have no license or car. Im afraid to get up there and have something happen  between us and his family kick me out or take the baby or anything.  My head and heart are both telling me to do the opposite thing and Im seriously SO confused, Someone please help.