I've been seeing a psychiatrist for over a year now and am on some medication that has helped me a lot with managing my depression, anxiety, and PTSD. Since I started seeing her, there's been some things about her that have rubbed me the wrong way and I was able to kind of overlook them, but they’ve gradually gotten to where I can’t do that anymore. She's not a bad doctor or person, but she tends to make her priorities more important than my priorities when it comes to treatment and even when I come in with good news to report she'll bring it back to me not doing "enough" in the areas she thinks I should and dismissing the areas I've done well in – even if the areas I’ve done well in are the areas I feel I’ve needed to put the most work into, and even if the areas she wants me to prioritize (mostly the social stuff, like making friends) are areas I’ve also majorly improved in. It seems like anytime I try to convey this to her, it's like I'm raising a red flag that says I'm just trying to avoid making an effort. I've really tried to step back and consider whether she's making a good point, but it just seems like she's measuring my accomplishments using someone else's ruler and not mine. Again it doesn't make her a bad person and I do think she cares about me as a patient, but at a certain point it's just excessive and unpleasant and doesn't create a positive or healthy environment. Obviously it's fine to offer constructive criticism to a patient but hers stopped being constructive a while ago and I'm tired of walking out of her office feeling like I've failed because I didn't live up to what she wanted when I know I work really hard to manage my mental illness. I'm grateful that she helped me find the right medication, but I really don't owe her anything and I can't keep feeling like every time I go to the doctor I'm going to need to justify all of my choices, even the ones I'm content with. This isn’t good for my mental health.
 So after my last appointment on Monday, I decided it was best to call and make an appointment with a different office. Since I'm a new patient and the new psychiatrist's office seems to be pretty in demand, the appointment isn't until July 13th. They put me on a cancellation list in case an earlier appointment becomes available but I don't want to rely too heavily on that possibility. The issue I'm having is that my current psychiatrist only gave me a prescription refill that will cover me for two months and I'm supposed to go back on May 24th for another appointment. Obviously, it'd be bad to run out of medication and not be able to take it from May-July - especially since one of the medications is Effexor which is known to have withdrawal effects. Does anyone have advice for how I can get my prescription while waiting for the July 13th appointment, without having to keep my May 24th appointment with the current psychiatrist? I can go back if I really, really have to but I just am hoping for an alternative because the last appointment was the worst one yet and has left me stressed and upset for literally days after. I just don’t see the point in giving this doctor any more of my time or money when it's actually become bad for my mental health rather than helpful. Would seeing a general practice doctor be a good option? Could I call the future psychiatrist and explain the situation to see if they'd have any suggestions? I obviously hesitate to call the current psychiatrist to explain the situation since of course I'm not sure she'd be willing to call the refill into the pharmacy in order to help me avoid seeing her; the current psychiatrist is in a neighboring city and the new one is much closer to home, so that's always a reason I could give if needed but doesn't quite cover why I couldn't just come in for one more appointment when I've been making the relatively short drive for over a year now. I know this is a couple months away, but don't want to wait until the last minute to get it sorted. Any advice is appreciated!