Been having mixed feelings from my spouse for the past couple of years.  One minute things are great, the next with the flip of a switch they're not.  We were always such an envied couple, and around other people he acts as if he absolutely adores me still.  Then we come home, and I feel like he can hardly stand me.  I recently have had some medical issues that have really been emotionally difficult for me, and have really scared me in to thinking he wouldn't want me anymore because I feel like such a burden.  He always assured me that he would never feel any different.  Then on a recent trip, we had been out drinking with some friends and he drank a lot and said some very hurtful things to me that I'm not even sure if he remembers.  Some of those things were that I was a burden and he was tired of putting up with my ailments.  It was never brought up again after that night, and the next day he couldn't remember a lot of things from that night so I never brought it up and he never acted as if we had an argument.  I am really hurt today, last night he proceeded to tell me how told a friend of ours that he works with that he was basically encouraging him not to ask his girlfriend to marry him because it would change everything.  That he would be giving everything up that he loves, no more going and diong whatever he wants, buying whatever he wants.  Basically pointing out every negative aspect of marriage that he could to our friend and discouraging him from marrying the girl that he loves.  Really made me feel like he was so unhappy about marrying me that he couldn't give any positive remarks to his friend about being married, he only focused on negative things, like a wife is such horrible thing.  I couldn't even say anything, I sat up most the night feeling very sad and angry.  I don't know what to say to him.  I know he will just say he didn't mean anything by it, but how else was I supposed to take it.  You can't tell me he was only basing what he told our friend off of other peoples failed marriages.  If he is so unhappy, why can't he have the decency to let me go.  It would hurt me more than anything because I do love him, we've been together for over 10 years.  But I don't want to waste anymore of either of ours lives if he's that unhappy.