I love my little sister to death and she came home the other day and was saying how her boyfriend has been grabbing her by the arms when he gets mad and leaving bruises. Not only that, he has been picking her up by the neck of her shirt, too. He verbally abuses her also, in saying things to her like "you stupid b****" on a daily basis. The verbal abuse gets worse depending on how mad he is. She breaks up with him for a day then he cries and says he is so sorry and she takes him back everytime. My parents see how he treats her and they still like him! My dad doesn't believe it's as bad as my sister says and i think my mom just wants to be friends with his mom is why she don't make a big deal about it. I, however, have a really hard time liking him at all for what he does to her. She is only 16 and he is 19, she doesnt need to put herself through that. Well he came over a few days ago and i refused to go into the same room as him, and it caused a big arguement between my mom and me because she said the way i was acting about it "disgusts" her. I'm 8 months pregnant and my parents kicked me out of my house, because they said if i cant get along with him then i don't need to be here, because my sister loves him and he's not going anywhere. I was shocked to hear them say this to me. How are you going to put your pregnant daughter out of the house, because she thinks it's wrong that her 16 year old sister is dating an abusive guy? So her boyfriend came in the living room and was laughing as my parents were telling me this and i walked over to him as i was leaving my house and slapped him across the face and said " i hope you like it when people put their hands on you." I have been feeling bad about getting violent, but i have never in my life been that angry at someone. I never hit people. I just want to know if i'm completly in the wrong for this? Also, what so you guys think about my little sister's relationship? The physical stuff just started and i don't want it to get worse.