My husband and I dated for 6 years (did not live together) and have been married for 14 years.  We're both 40 now.  While we were dating, we pretty much never fought and he treated me just great -- he never looked at other women or asked me to change anything about myself, nor did he judge or criticize me.  This was the kind of man I had hoped to meet some day!  While we dated, he was attracted to the fact that I was a strong-willed, assertive, self-sufficient person who was self-confident and knew how to get things done.  Even though we dated for 6 years, I really wasn't on any particular time-table as to getting married, but we talked about our future and we assumed we'd get married some day.  When he bought me a ring and proposed, it was a huge suprise to me, but I knew it was right and said yes.  
 About 6 months after we married, he became the complete opposite person he'd been while we were dating.  He started looking at other women right in front of me, he judged and criticized my opinions and appearance (subtly at first, then more outright and negatively).  He started looking at porn (which I never knew him to do previously although he's admitted that he's looked at it since early teens) and his use of it has become increasingly more frequent.  He quickly got to the point where he voiced to me his strong opinions on what I should wear and how much time I should (not) spend w/my family -- to whom he knew I had always been close.  
 Over the past 14 years, his judgementalism and criticism of me has caused me to change who I am, to the point that I don't know who I am or what I'm interested in anymore.  He has treated me this way even though I've done alot of the things that he's said I should do as to my appearance, what I'm interested in and the way I spend my time.  I've tried so hard to please him, but I know that either I'm not capable of truly doing that or that he'll never be happy with me no matter what.  I'm angry at him for doing this to me, but I am capable of forgiving him, and I do each time, but then he does it again after a few days.  
 We are both highly educated and professionally very successful.  We just had a baby after he'd decided that parenthood was something we "should" do since we are getting "old."  I'd always wanted to be a mom, so that was OK w/me even though I'd made it known to him that I hoped to adopt.  Regardless, we got pregnant right away and that was great.  I wasn't sure how that would change him in the way he treated me but I hoped for the best.  I was wrong -- when I was 8 months pregnant, he started having a mid-life crisis and wanted to be 25 again -- spending late nights out w/the 20-somethings he worked with.  He got text messages that were questionably racy (although I know he hasn't cheated on me) and I found out he has still been looking at porn.  Three days after I had my baby, he called me a hermit and said I should be up and around and bringing in company.  A few weeks later, he criticized my weight and told me I let myself go (I only gained 45 pounds and I'm now only about 9 pounds away from my pre-pregnancy )weight -- I had my baby 2 1/2 months ago).  
 My question is this:  Is this my fault and if so, what should I do differently?  I know I'm not perfect -- I gained, then lost about 20 pounds since we've been married (before the pregnancy) and I've made some mistakes in the way I spent money on our household furnishings, but that was 14-12 years ago and he's never forgiven me and brings it up all the time as the reason he presently does what he does to me.  He's also gained weight, lost alot of hair and become very self-endulged, but I love him regardless -- its just the way he treats ME that I argue w/him about.  He blames me almost entirely for his anger, for his use of porn, for his unhappiness in life personally and professionally and for a long list of other things.  He says he wishes he'd waited to get married and tells me that things would be OK if I'd be less "independent" minded.  He also tells me he thinks we can work things out if we get counseling one more time (even though w/the past 3 counselors, nothing ever changed).  I've tried to leave him a couple times, but each time, he genuinely asks me not to go -- yet w/in a few days he starts treating me just as bad, if not worse.  HELP!!