hi, new to this forum, din't know you were there. What a result. I am Mum, daughter ,30s, BPD, but won't accept. 
Have read all the books but... she is very angry with me at the moment. refuses to speak to me, she's hurt and  injured. Moved out about a year ago but comes nearly every day. Don't mind, I'm all she's got. Love her, worry about her, so stressed can't sleep now. Want to cuddle her and make it all better. I'm really tring to do what it says in "Stop Treading On Glass" but I feel her pain. 
Could a Bpd or a better, stronger carer than me please tell me what to do. I'm not calling her (had the upset yesterday) but she has caled and text 3 times to find out how 90 yr old nan is doing(lives with us). When I ask her how she is she says "I have nothing to say to you". I know it's hurting her to do this, I'm her only unjudgemental support, but it's hurting me so much. I just say "o.k, I'll speak to you soon, love you" in a pretend cheerful voice.
Please advise.
Should I:
Ask her to come over to talk about it? I'm scared cos she'll scream at me but I will if that's what to do.
Write her an email to explain what she has misunderstood? (But how can I get her to rationalise an irretional reaction?)
Leave her until she runs out of food, money and has to come? (Can't go there, really near but have bad CFS, also reason why I cant be as strong as I'd like)
She's a lovely person and has always been there for me but she has alienated most of her friends. At first i Thought it was  because she has such high standards  for relationships but other people let her down. Now I know that although she is a very loyal, moral person, she would take offence at the least little thing.
Anyway, she is the stone in the pool and has affected all my family life for years. pleases advise on the current situation and if someone could give me some insight about how she thinks I would be grateful. Thankyou to all of you and brilliant to all the BPDs who have believed the diagnosis and who are actually trying to get help. You are very, very brave. Also hello to all carers out there - believe me you are not alone!