I suspect that my ex might have Borderline Personality Disorder...
 I dated my ex for about 6 months before she dumped me out of the blue. It was a huge shock to me. We had never fought, raised a voice to each other, anything. When I had first met her she said she had a darkside. 
 I thought maybe depression or something to that effect caused by her upbringing. Her father left when she was very young. Had an affair with another woman from her mother, and had a kid out of wedlock. She sees him maybe once a year.
 The relationship started out very intense, the physical and emotional aspects of it. We started talking marriage maybe a month and a half into the relationship. Before this I hadn't really ever had an intense relationship. This thing took off quick. She lived two hours away, and we would see each other 3-5 times a week. We took major road trips within a month of starting the relationship. 
 Up until about two weeks before the breakup she was still talking about living together for the rest of our lives.
 She did have a meltdown one night after after a weekend of drinking. She told me she doesn't believe that I could love her as much as I said, and that she hates when I give her compliments. Also that me talking about marriage was freaking her out... even though she was talking about it more than I was.
 After that I saw major Anxiety in her (she would develope hives from it), and some depression. She didn't want to go out anymore, just stay in. The strange thing was that the day she broke up with me I spent the night with her, and she seemed to be happy, laughing, being playful, and telling me she wished she could staying bed all day and cuddle. The break up was so strange, I treated the girl like a queen. 
 I remember her saying she didn't feel like she was ready for a relationship, and said I was hyper and nervious. I've never really been hyper ever in my life. I read someplace that people with borderline personality disorder project their feelings on others... is this true? 
 I remember she told me about attempting suicide once infront of her Mother, but her Mother didn't react to it.
 Throughout our relationship she seemed to push away friends of hers for minor things. She even moved to the East Coast to get away from her mother for about a year, then came back to the West Coast. She decided where to move by randomly pointing on a map. She was talking about moving away from her Mother again while we were dating.
 After we broke up, I was civil to her, but told her that we needed space. Later on I went to a wedding that a friend of hers was also at. She was keeping tabs on me all night through texting, and made this girl my "babysitter" for the night. I've never had a girl dump me, then want to keep tabs on me. 
 Later on in the week we got to talking about the wedding, somehow we got to fighting. I told her that I had been asked out by a girl in my social circle and that I was going to go see if there was anything there. I told her we needed some space. She reacted very bad at this calling me a jerk and that I was trying to play her. She also called me a lair for not being a good friend. She was the one that broke up with me. I figured she didn't have feelings for me anymore. I wanted to show her that I was moving on.
 I'm not a doctor, but I do have a copy of the DSM and a few psych text books. Have a degree in it, with a Business Admin Minor. A lot of the symptoms seem to match up that I saw over a 6/7 month period now that I look back on the relationship. I really couldn't list them all her, but for example she speeds 20-25 over and is a pretty reckless driver (recieved a few tickets while we were dating, plus her fair share of accidents in the past), drinks pretty heavy a few nights (during the work week).
 I don't think I want another relationship if she comes back, but I do want to be there for her. Is it typical for people with BPD to come back into an exes' life, even if they were the one to end the relationship? How should I treat her? She has told me that she has a low self-esteem. 
 I have heard through other friends that she's been taking the break up hard, and that she was hurting. Which seemed odd to me because she said she didn't feel bad for herself, but for me.
 I just need some advise if she does have this. I still do love her dearly, and do want to help her. I do know that she can't get help unless she wants it. It's funny reading all of this stuff, you start to think you have it. I remember reading the text book for "Abnormal Psychology" a few years back in class. It said never diagnose yourself, you will start to think you have everything. I do know that I do have a bit of ADD, without the hyperactivity. So most relationships I was in I'd grow bored with within a few weeks.