I haven't been to the forum in a while but, I feel l like I'm at the lowest point that I've been in a while. For the past 3 years I've been really struggling with depression and anxiety. My doctor has put me on a plethora of medications and though they do seem to help with some of the symptoms, the don't really make that big a difference in my behavior. I spend most of my life trapped in my own head. I spend most of my time alone and have gotten to the point that I can barely get out of bed in the morning. I've tried to express to both a psychiatrist and a counselor that I feel like I have more problems than the medications can really help. In the quest to learn about myself and what might be wrong with me I stumbled across a book on Borderline Personality Disorder and broke down into tears when reading about the criteria for having this disorder. I'm not an intelligent person, nor do I have any background in any kind of psychological training but, I feel like I'm going to snap. I've contemplated and planned on committing suicide for a long time but, now it's different. It's like all the tears have dried up. When I think about it I feel really euphoric and almost at peace. I spend so much time alone now and though I'd love to be close to someone, I can't seem to make a connection to another person. I'm just to riddled with anxiety to try or, I think of how terrible I feel when I lose those I become somewhat close to and I'm terrified to feel abandoned again. My temper is getting out of control again and I just don't feel like I can keep it in check for much longer. I feel like a shadow of a real person. I just feel weird like I don't exist. I have one person left that I talk to about this and she said that I can get disability for my problems and that way I can focus on getting better without having to worry about working at these minimum wage jobs that I hate and spending the day trying to keep from losing control. I'm having a really hard time just being around people. PLEASE, if there's someone on this forum that know what I need to do to pursue this then just leave me a response. I'm trying to hold on to my job but, I can't last like this much longer. The older I get the harder it gets to live this life and I'm running out of reasons to get out of bed in the morning. I feel like I just can't function in society much longer and I need to focus on figuring out once and for all what's wrong with me.The enemy you know is much easier to defeat than the one you don't. I know this seems like a very odd thing to post but, I've ruined almost all of the good relationships in my life and can't seem to find my place in the world. My father's helping me a little financially and I don't want him to have to keep doing that. Do I need some kind of formal diagnosis from a doctor to get disability? Can I even try to go to school if I'm on it? Can I even get it? I'm sorry to leave such a long post but, I need the advise of someone who can understand what I'm going through. I live my life alone and unable to move forward. I can't seem to focus or learn new skills. I feel like I died a long time ago and I'm just on borrowed time. I just feel very defeated.