Hi have been married for just over 4 years now. My wife has always been very sensitive to evereything. She has always had an issue with Trust and frequently acuses me of having relationships without having any reason. She has gone so far as to tell me that someone has phoned her to tell her that I am cheating on her. I cannot even walk with her in a mall, as she would get very angry and accuse me of looking at woman. She also has a problem with walking in our house in the dark, and I have to switch on the lights for her first. (At first I thought this was to seek attention).
 Some of our biggest fights happen when there is a big figh when I am 5-10 min late coming back from work....She would ask me "where I was" and would lose sense of reality that actually I could have been stuck in traffic. She also hates being in crowds of people and would make excuses not going to parties where large numbers of people would be. On the odd ocasion, where we do land up at a social event, she gets very irratated and normally pics a fight over something so that we can go home. Everey social event we have been to turned out in a fight,
 In the first 3 years she has also made numerouse suicide threats and on 2-3 occasions cut hersef. The suicide tendancy as well as the fear of darkness has dissapeared since the birth of our twins a year ago, but the rest remains unchanged.
 Her arguments over something small (usually things she cannot reason about) turns into intense anger and she will follow me around the house for 30min up to a couple of hours screaming and shouting about the same issue for example being late or looking at another woman. This sometimes turn violent. After an intense episode like this she will return calm, but remain angry and silent for a day up to two weeks, During this period the smallest of things would triger an outburst during which time she would normally swaer at me, say something nasty or degrading to me. I go from a loving husband a week ago to the badest person she knows.
 I have never known how to treat any of this and have tried to look and change my attitude and response a number of times as I was told by her on many ocasions that it is my fault and that I need to change. Needless to say, none of my strategies ever worked....
 I recently heard about BPD, and when reading up on the symptoms, it accurately described what I was experiencing from my wife. I have seen a phsycologist and explained this to him...he mentioned it could also be bi-polar.
 Can annyone with experience on this give me an indication of what this could be?