My mom has BPD which I found out recently from my aunt over Thanksgiving.  Pretty soon after that, my ex-boyfriend broke up with me. He attempted to try a split up several times before, but every time I would try to get him to stay by telling him I couldn't be friends and if he walked away he wouldn't hear from me again and things like that.  Throughout the entire relationship I would point out reasons of how it seemed he didn't seem he wanted to be with me and told him regularly he didn't care or love me and that he was probably only infatuated with no reason.  The first five months were perfect.  Then we started fighting and mostly it was me who picked fights over stupid things.  After the break up it only got worse, I would send him multiple text messages, up to 15 at times without getting a response.  I've always known I flip out when people don't answer me and ignore me, but it was even worse with him.  I'm fine with most other people except close friends.  I know that how I'm behaving is wrong and I feel so guilty about it...but I can't seem too control it.  I know I'm acting like a selfish school girl who just wants attention but I would gladly change all of this if I could.  I've tried giving up my cell phone, blocking his number, talking to all my friends and family...but talking only seems to make things worse.  I will be fine while talking to a person about the situation but I'm very easily swayed to their side and opinion.  I also have found recently that I am miserable and feel non-existent.  I hate being alone, I've been craving affection and have wanted to cuddle a lot recently.  I'm so desperate just to hear from him it's pathetic.  I know it's wrong for me to be this attached. I don't know what to do anymore, I've gotten so bad he won't even talk to me anymore and he's not even trying to understand. I know I'm insecure and have huge mood swings and I even realize when I am having them.  I can sit there and say he loved me so much and he was so good to me and did everything right and then the next I'll be saying he used me and he's a liar and a manipulator.  I can't make up my mind and it *****.  I'm constantly looking for answers for why he said certain things and why he did certain things and always fall back on "If he loves me why won't he..." or "If he cares why won't he..."  At first when I heard about BPD when my aunt who is a psychologist told me my mom had it and described it, I realized I exhibit some of the traits.  My family has never been too close and has a bad habit of ignoring issues.  After the signs became more and more obvious after the break up I just shoved the idea that I had it aside...but now I'm out of control...sobbing one minute, laughing the next, and then full of rage at other times.  It's affecting my schooling and social life.  Is it possible I have BPD or am I just imaging it and know too much about it to falsify symptoms?