Hello Mr.Gould,
 Are Depression and Bad Memory connected ?
 I just wanted to clarify whether this is depression or not ?
 I am a 23 year old male - I never knew about depression or could not believe that there was condition called Depression till last year - when i read about it on the Net. But the depression symptoms almost matched my symptoms - symptoms/problems/weirdness which i have been facing since my childhood.
 Mental Symptoms :-
 Since my childhood i am very slow to react on any given situation, i dont know why ? First i thought i was very lazy,  and started to work on my laziness in my teens. I am slow in the sense - by the time i reached 17 yrs, i began to comb my hair ( Till then i used to never comb my hair - i was never even worried about my looks or personality ) and then started to think about my personality like - How i look ? How i should dress ? which friends of my age had started doing long back.
 Lets come back to my childhood - I had the habit of Bed-wetting - I was very emotional, untidy, but was very good in General knowledge and Social studies ? My memory was too good, i used to top my class in these subjects. But when i came to 4th grade - i started to observe that my handwriting was quite deteriorating - it was shabby but understandable - but still shabby and i was very slow and i used to hold the pencil in a different manner. And i was always lazy to get up early in the morning. My father joined me to karate classes as he thought that regular exercises will help me get back to track. I used to feel sleepy always........ .My father got transferred to a new place, so for the 8th grade - i moved to a new school. The problems have started since then and have not ended till now - I had no friends - failed in two or three subjects - by end of the 9th grade my memory had dropped -i used always score less in maths & physics, i did not score well and so i was thrown into a class where all the low scoring students of our school were kept. I felt ashamed and disgusted and really wanted revenge this time......................................................................... 
  Here is the main problem - Since then i have this deep feeling inside me - I AM BIGGEST IDIOT ON EARTH - I HAVE NO MINIMUM INTELLIGENCE AND ETHICS TO LIVE IN THIS SOCIETY. Since my childhood i believe in this saying  - " Everything created on earth has some purpose or the other, otherwise it has no reason to be on earth " - SO I THOUGHT I SHALL COMPLETE MY RESPONSIBILITIES IN THIS WORLD AND THEN HELL WITH THIS LIFE - but somehow was convinced that this feeling would go and when i grow up i will become normal like others.But it just continued - My Bachelors education period was all the more horrible than i thought it would be. I first of all went out of my state for my bachelors and stayed in hostel, i became Home Sick, failed again in all Maths subjects - almost had a year back - i could not get what i was lacking. I used to cry in the nights, wake up abruptly and start praying to GOD to help me - pass all my subjects. My family financial status was looking quite bad so i had to complete my degree to become Bread - winner for the family. Some how i tried to manage my subjects - my room-mates used to study very loudly in the evenings - so in order to study i started to sleep in the evenings and get up at 12.00 am and start studying till the exam - go to college write the exam - come back and sleep. This clicked for me and i started to study all nights before the exams - sometimes i have had night-outs with only two hours of sleep. But i completed my bachelor's degree, i then tried for higher studies as i had my own sponsor, but got rejected twice because of low scores. I postponed my study plans and tried for job - but could not get a job too - i was sitting at home just doing nothing for 2 years. I have faced a lot of health problems since my bachelors - 
 Symptoms:-
 1. Dry Mouth - My mouth gets dried quickly - need to drink water every 1 hour ( Dry Lips ).
 2. Mouth Ulcers - Very frequent comes within 2  1-1/2 weeks. 
 3. Throat Infection - Very frequent 2-3 days. I always have throat infection or cold or mouth ulcers or tooth pain round the year. I just dont know what is the reason - might be allergy also. 
 4. Dis-oriented speech - I think of speaking something - but i dont get the exact words to convey the message (even in my mother tongue) and very frequently i would have mis-spelled the words talking some gibberish word. This never happened in my life.
 5. Low memory - I forget like anything and everything - it is like i cant remember a thing i did - just a minute ago. i have to think very hard and if i get hints i am able to remember something.
 6. Always feeling sleepy - even if i take a nap for 10 hours straight. I like night outs somehow. 
 7. Unwanted Anger and Aggressiveness - basically i am calm but these days i have really become outrageous.
 8. Loss of appetite - Dont feel like eating anything all the time - but eat something or the other to live thats all.
 9. I say "No" for everything - If u ask me anything - first word from will be "NO" - not interested again. 
 10. Generally my parents say that i think too much................ always thinking...............  
 Coming back to the main problem - I have still not forgot that deep feeling inside me - I AM BIGGEST IDIOT ON EARTH - I HAVE NO MINIMUM INTELLIGENCE AND ETHICS TO LIVE IN THIS SOCIETY. I am suicidal always round the year - i feel like doing it - but sometimes not interested - If my friends call for an Outing - i am not interested. In fact i am not interested into anything. Sometimes i am very angry, always sad, basically introvert. i dont know what happening around very slow to react. 
 Now i have tried to put it as neatly as possible - I just wanted to know whether i am in depression ? or not ? or am i way above this ? Fanatic ? Is yes is it connected with memory ?
Is this normal ?
Abnormal ?
 Respected sir - 
 I thank you for listening to me and for ur patience ( for reading such a big post ). Sorry if i have not written the problem in a correct manner
 Regards 
Chiru