I am now in my 40's. I have tried everything I know how to to stop my past from being my present. Nothing works. I either have memories or flashbacks or im being triggered by soemthing almost on a daily basis still.A neighbor molested me when I was 5 for a period of two years. My parents got a divorce when i was 7. Thats how it stopped...or so I thought. My mother got involved with a very violant man. Towards me anyway. He was also Into child pornography. He involved me into it also. I was 8 at the time. this lasted 4 years. When I was 12 I finally got out of it. But my stepfather would beat me almost on a daily basis after that until I was 17.I have alot of issues from those things. I would love to do nothing more then forget it ever happened. I cant seem to get to the point where It wont bother me. I still have nightmares from it, things trigger me..I never know what is going to trigger me, so that is a problem..I still have flashbacks, where I feel that I am back there being molested..the worse thing for me was having to do "things" with other kids my age.in front of a camera..Things I didnt understand, didnt like, didnt want happeneing... I also S.I. because of it.(self injure) I have been doing that since I was 11. My life turns upside down at times from these things. I feel that I did soemthing wrong, that I am toblame somehow for it. That I deserve to feel like I did back then. I am so immature ,I act,feel, like I am still in my early 20's. I never grew up to adulthood.I have D.I.D. becasue of the abuse(dissociative identity disorder used to be MPD)That is another thing..I still dissociate regularly. Becasue of this I rteally dont know who I am. I know who the alters are. I still have a hard time with this. I would like one week to go by where I havent triggered or had a flashback, nightmare, memories that are so real that it makes me sick to my stomach. There is also one thing(i cant say) from when i was 5-7. I wont say what it was..but it is soemthing that makes me sick..very sick to think about. repulsed at the thought. I have a psychiatrist and a therapist. they try to help me with these issues. they dont tho. does anyone have any sufggestions? I have tried everything ive been told about to help[. nothing seems to help. ...so Im asking here..thank you ...brian