Hello.
 I never thought i would post something like this but here goes.
 I met my husband fresh out of high school. I had just turned 19 (im 28 now). I never had a boyfriend before that or even any kind of sexual experience besides kissing. I live a certain lifestyle where i wont "hook up" with someone unless i love them. No one ever liked me because of this lifestyle along with being drug free and not going to parties or anything.
 We have been together almost 9 years and just celebrated our 2 year wedding anniversary. We have no children. However, i feel utterly lost.
 The main thing is that i absolutely cannot stand when my husband touches me. I am completely grossed out by him. We have sex maybe once a month because i feel bad for him. When its happening, i feel close to tears because im just so disgusted. Honestly, its been that way from the beginning. Ive never been like head over heels sexually attracted to him. But hes such a nice guy.
 BUT i do fantasize about being intimate with other people but maybe everyone does that?
 I feel like i am not a person anymore. He controls everything. Hes not controlling, he just leads the way i guess and i follow. He wont move farther away than 2 blocks from his mom (hes a huge mamas boy). I once asked him if there was a fire and he could only save me or his mom, who would he save? He never answered so we all know the answer to that. We spend entire days just sitting at his parentz house then when its time to see my family, he complains endlessly. I live 10 minutes away from my parents and siblings and only see them every couple months bc of this. 
 He is really a great guy. And i know he would literally take a bullet for me.
 The thing is, hes sort of like obsessed with me. I dont think im good looking but i see other guys looking and my husbands friends always tell him how hot i am. I tried leaving him once about 2 years ago and he begged and begged and i had no place to go at that time so i stayed. Then i found out i had a hypo thyroid and i thought maybe i was depressed bc.of that?
 However, my feelings with sex never changed. Ive started to become terrified of what my life is going to be like in 10 years. Im so young and i feel trapped, like i have no freedom. My other friends with boyfriends or spouses are always hanging out with friends. We always hang out with his friends but when i wanna go out by myself with friends, he gets all pissy so i never go out.hes always on his phone playing games and stuff. Whenever im on my.phone in front of him, hes constantly asking what im doing and looking over my shoulder. I feel like he doesnt trust me but ive never given him a reason not to. Hes the first boyfriend i ever had!my friends think its cuz hes.constantly afraid of losing me because i am (well they say so) too good looking for him. I dont think so and i firmly believe its not all about looks but you do hafta be sexually attracted to someone.
 The thought of leaving and being "free" fills.me.with excitement. I think we were too young when we met and i want different things now.
 Please do not post mean comments. Im lookng for advice.  My friends all say leave because they know ive been unhappy for years now. Im looking for advice from people outside the situation.
 Thanks