Hey all,
 I'm hoping for some help both from those with BPD and any professionals or those with experience in dealing with people with BPD.
 Last year (early 2015), I met a young lady and we began a relationship.  During the course of that relationship, I noticed suicidal tendencies and many of the hallmark traits of folks who have BPD (though I didn't know it at the time).  I convinced her to get help with our local mental health facility, and she was diagnosed with BPD.
 Shortly after her diagnosis, we broke up (I did the breaking - as I felt our relationship was not healthy, and that any recovery she could manage would be best done if she were relying on herself rather than me), but still not knowing much about BPD, I tried to remain friends with her to support her in what ways I could.  After months of ups and downs, tons of phone calls, plenty of tears, fights, periods of separation, etc., I found that she had never really gotten past the relationship (despite her previous insisting that she had).  I asked that we go separate ways without contact until she has moved on and has gotten her life in order.  She, through a lot of tears, said that it was not what she wanted, but agreed that it was probably for the best.  We also agreed that, if absolutely necessary, we could contact one another through my mother, so that it is not direct.
 My question(s) are as follows:
I want to do right by her and help in whatever way I can, but from what I've read, it's probably a good idea to stay away, as contact from me would likely trigger unhappy feelings for her.  Is this accurate?  If this is the case, is it actually ok to relay messages every few weeks or months through my mother, or is that just as bad?  When some time passes, might it be ok to contact her?
 I know that a romantic relationship with her is not what I want anymore, but I genuinely care about her, and want to be supportive as a friend if that's possible, whether it's sooner, later, or much later.  But I realize that the best thing I can do for her may be to stay away completely.  Any help or advice would be appreciated.
 Also, any advice on getting her to go to DBT would be helpful as well.  Am I correct in saying that this is the most effective form of therapy for the condition?