GRAPHIC DETAILS. warning 
  So let me start with this.. I usually smoke before I sleep. Last night I was very high, paranoid and emotional. I don't know why, it has never been like this.
I went to go masturbate as usual. As I was, I suddenly stopped and was overcome by my childhood memories. 
As a kid, I used to play house, when I was 6-9 years old with all my female friends. I would always be the "dad", we would always be kissing and such and "having sex" (kissing for more than 2 minutes.) Usually, i was the initiator, but we were just kids and didn't know any better. It would happen a lot. I remember at a different friends house, her sister was 2 years older than us, and her and her female friend along with me and my friend basically all were kissing and grinding and dancing and sleeping naked. For some reason, my childhood was very sexual.
Now i remember one incident that was the root of my anxiety last night. I had a neighbor a year younger than me that I would always kiss and stuff. one night specifically we got naked and laid in bed until the babysitter called us for dinner. I don't remember if i had touched her inappropriately but i do remember telling her we were playing house and married and thats what people did. I think we just laid there.
My anxiety was:
1.why did i act like this as a kid? 
2. i wonder if she still thinks about it like i did? can i possibly remember everything that happened?
3. could it have ruined her life?
I don't remember. 
 As a kid I started watching pornography at a very young age, always lesbian. I was so scared of being gay. One night I cried for hours with one of my "house" playing friends, we were scared our parents would find out. Now at 20, i havent really been with girls just primarly men, ive had sex, boyfriends etc.  I havent even thought about that since last night. 
I just wanna know perhaps why i acted like that as a child. Pedophilia, rape, etc makes me DISGUSTED. I was raped by a man at 16 and it still changed my life for he worst.. Idk where this came from .My oldest sister is gay, but i know she would never hurt me in any type of way. Can someone help me out