Hello,
Let me start from the beginning, I am a 16 year old male and my whole life I was always seeing, hearing, and feeling, things that weren't really there. The past two nights this has increased DRAMATICALLY but only during the late night hours.
 I am constantly seeing, hearing, and feeling things that aren't there. Even feeling rapid thermal changes inside of my body. This occurs all the time but rarely during the day and constantly at night. On top of this I am finding it becoming nearly impossible to sleep at night, and I am only tired during the day. But when I do sleep at night I am haunted by constant nightmares. Every time I sleep I wake up about two minutes later. But again this isn't a problem during the day.
 The hallucinations range from many different topics. I started seeing mostly animals but it moved on to people and other things as simple as rope hanging from the ceiling and draping over walls as well. The auditory hallucinations include voices, not telling me to do anything, but simply conversing with each other. The conversations are blurry and I can't tell what they are saying. I also hear things like buttons clicking, rain, cars, trucks, horns, music, and a barrage of other sound effects. I only felt pressure once, and it came with a thermal change. I felt that somebody was dumping buckets of ice on me, I felt it covering me, and my body became seemingly very cold.
 The odd thing about the hallucinations is that I am aware they aren't reality. Studying psych for a while on my own time a few years back I first thought maybe it was.. What is the name for it.. Peducular Hallucinosis? Something like that. But I had an MRI about a year or less ago and nothing was wrong. So it can't be that it would have to be a mental problem.
 What do you think it is?
 Another problem I am having is that I have had suicidal thoughts almost all my life. Within the last few years it got worse and I stopped hanging out with friends, I just want to sit at home and sleep or troll in my room all day. I am angry and snap at the slightest things. 
 Could I be depressed too?
 One more problem. I have an odd anxiety where I can't go into school late. I just can't do it. It renders impossible in my mind. I would rather kill the person driving me to school and become a fugitive fighting to stay hidden and for survival. If I miss a day of school I can't go back. I can but it is incredibly difficult. So much so I will burst into tears upon walking through the hallway to my next class. I break down and shake crying on the floor whenever somebody tries to get me into school late. Could I have a phobia? In New York State would this phobia, with a note from a psychiatrist, be enough to get absences appealed? I have a number of absences that is almost making me audit all my classes.
 Finally, the past two days because of this radical increase in the hallucinations I am having, and the nightmares, and lack of sleep, as well as sudden insomnia, I have been absent from school. If I explain all of this to a psychiatrist (I never told anybody about any of these problems before) would he/she have to give me a note to remove those absences? Would I have an oath of privacy meaning he/she would not be able to tell my parents what is going on with me? Even with the thoughts of suicide and harming myself? Even if I explain I have attempted suicide before?
 My main concern is the hallucinations, but if anybody knows anything about the rest of these problems please provide input.
 Thank you,
~Me_n_me