As a child he was diagnosed with add. I now think ot has evolved to this or was wrongly diagnosed amd idk what to do.
  When we first got together things were amazing. I come from an abbusive home and a previous long term abusive relationship so i thought he was perfect. Very much had his life together and treated me like i was the cherry on top of his sunday. I knew he made up little white lies but his mom said it was due to his add and i figured theyre harmless stories to make me like him.
 After a few months i realized he has a serious addiction to porn and spending money. At first he put it all away and started handing me his checks to pay bills and our mortgage. The money was a good idea but i told him it didnt bother me if he watched/looked at porn but id prefer if he cut down some. Still he with an attitude insisted on packing it all up and moving it to the attic.
 Our first big fights he would blow up bit i would refuse to talk to him while "acting like a fool" and throwing things so he would calm down and we would talk things out.
 Then the 1st time he put his hands on me we were arguing over something about him cheating (which i never found full proof of just pics a girl he SAID his friend sent). He pushed i threw my hands up to protect myself and he pushed me again this time i fell back into our tub. The whole time he was saying he hated me wanted me out and etc. The second i started to cry he grabbed me and said im sorry i domt deserve u and i dont want you to leave but if u do i dont blame u. 
 Months go by and everything is fine. He was comsistently asking me for a 3some tho. Then i hear him talking to an old friend from work. Later come to fimd explisit messages between them on facebook he swears he wouldnt cheat and was asking her to have a 3some (which i never agreed to) and she has tje same story. I later fimd out this was the same girl he cheated on his x with and he denied denied denied until i put this girl on the phone and she busted him out. Now he says he didnt think it was any of buisness who she was to him 3 years ago and constantly was blaming me for the argument because i went through his phone.
 So a few more months go by we are very distant but getting along. We sat down and talked about our problems and became very happy with one another again.
 About 3 weeks ago my sister came to stay a weekend with us. He was in the garuage fixing his car. I went out to ask a question and he got an attitude. I waited for a minute but still no answer so i walked away. He starts yelling and scream for me to come back and i just told him im going inside to hang out with my sister before we took her home. He very quickly turned it around to i wouldnt let him think and because " i wanted to be a brat" i was walking away because i didnt get what i wanted when i wanted it. Which was not the case at all. I am bi-polar to the fullest but have not jad issues in years with it. Ive learned for me the best thing to do is to remove myself from the situation before it escalates but with him it is very hard to do so because he will not allow me to. At this point in time he starts threatening me and pins me to the ground. We yell for a minute then i get up and sit in a chair we talk things out but suddenly he snaps again and starts threatening to kill me or himself. His family shows up and we seperate.
 So since then things have been fine until a few nights ago when he brought a gun into an argument. I know he would never kill me its defenantly a control device because if i didnt do what he said or answer what he asked fast enough he would threaten me. But what scares me is something will happen by accident to me him or some one else.
 I dont want to leave him but idk what to do to help. If things do not change i will have no problem leaving but i want to give him a chance. Usually he is loving level headed and very fun to be around also easy to talk to. When he snaps though he will ask why i push him to that point when i can do something as simple as ask where his keys are or can i use ur phone and it starts, he always the victim in his eyes. He says im crazy stupid and meed help when i yell but he is the only one that has ever started physical altercations. The other night he pushed me and i accidently burt him with a cigarette and he said i did it on purpose later i threw it so i wouldnt burn him again and he flipped MORE than je already was saying i was trying to burn the house down. He tells me to get out then when i try to leave he says he loves me and if i try to leave he will kill me. 
 He admitts he has a problem but avoids talking about it and is afraid to get help because he wants to become a police officer. Does anyone have any suggestions to give us anytype of a fighting chance?