We was going out for 1 year then ,we was in love , but it all started when i moved to his house as he thought that he could controll me. He started hitting me everyday he was hitting me harder and harder and care less and make me cry but tell me to shut up  and stop crying and carried on hitting me.I had enough then so  i run away and he was ringing me up everyday to take him back , and i was stupid enough to believe him that he's going to change. I was young then. 
So i took him back and he said if he ***** it up again i can leave him but he didn't he knew that he **** it up and started hitting me and not letting me go back home.after couple days he asked me to take nude pictures of me and i said no , he made me and i was all in tears but he didn't care he said if i don't do it he's going to beat me and took them. 
 After that i said i don't want to be with him i want to leave and he said if i'm going to leave him he's going to put all of the pictures on facebook, online , and show to all of my friends and family and everyone that i know is going to laught at me so i could feel embarrasing and wanting to die etc. 
I don't know what can I do to stop him or who do i tell or how to leave him! 
He controlls all my life , doesn't let me do anything without his permission , like i can't laugh,cry,get up when i want , i have to do exactly what he says i have to do or he will beat me up , with remote controller,stick or hammer or anything that would hurt me alot , i already have loads of bruises and scars everywhere but mainly he hits my foot and toes. He does anything from punching my head in to punching or kicking my body , or elbowing my back or ribs. :( 
Now i cry 24/7 sometimes when he sees me but sometimes when i am in my bedroom or bathroom and have bad times at college , i never smile now or talk , and all my friends are asking me if i am alright and what's wrong with me . I used to be very happy and smiley,talkative person. I can't do this anymore I want to leave him but i can't he keeps me in his house i haven't got key because of the last time , he says i will never have key anymore. 
He swears and clling me names at me everyday and expects me to be nice to him which i can't do because i don't want to be with him so he makes me to be nice to him when he beats me up i already had black eyes 3 times and bleeding from my head  and haven't seen my family because of that. he decides everything for me and when i can go out or when i can see my family.   now im his for over 2 years  and he wants to keep me for his all life and have family with him and etc.:( 
 I try to communicate with him but all he ever does is changing subjects or doesn’t want to solve problems and then pretends like nothing ever happened.
he's very aggressive towards me and I am trying to keep quite when he's angry and swearing at me like calling names for example, slag,*****,****,trump,thick,idiot,useless so i feel so down and i don't have any self-esteem.
 Update ! ***
He tries to be nice to me but when he gets angry he blames everything on me that i have done it , but now i understand him more on why he's been acting like that.
 He has ADHD ( attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) , learning difficulties,behavioural difficulties,poor social skills,poor motor skills and he has Dyspraxia and other things that i can give you on request.
 I really want to help him, try to make this relationship work or i want to leave him, but i have tried many things, like thretahen him with police ( retsrained order) or with other things, but all he ever says that  he will put my pictures up, he will beat my family up ( they live like 3 min away), he would beat me to death or call his all family to do it for him ,he refuses any help from others like go to anger mnagement or counsellor so he doesn't want anyone help  i tried other things that i cannot remember.
  I really need this sorted out because I want to do so many things in life the biggest of them is my education that is important to me but not to him so he doens't cares so most of the times he doesn't let me go to college or do my work but i want to go to University which he doesn't want me to do that's why he wants the baby now,but i want to have good job for myself aswell but i don't think that I will ever have good life or social life with others. i have also tried killing myself like swallowing some anti deppressant tablets that wasn't for me but i just found them ( had big headache for 4 days ), cutting my hand,wrists, not eating anything or drinkin water and beating my self up with the stick that he had been using on my feet or anywhere else and scratching my face and eyes till it bleeds, when he finds out what i have been doing he beats me up for it so i wudn't do it again and says that I am attention seeker when i say that i don't want to live anymore because in what mess i am right now , nothing goes to plan or everything is going wrong.
 Any advice here or suggestions on how can i help him , or what can i do to help other than to shut up and listen to what he says!