I am 22years old. A little more than a month ago I met what i thought to be the girl of my dreams. The way we met was like taken out from a Movie. We met on an airplane and there was a very strong overwhelming chemistry between us.
She quickly told me about herself ( family issues , how she had problems relating to other people) a bit of a "victim" but not necessarily blaming others but more blaming herself. She had an ex boyfriend whom she dumped 3 times and cheated on and would always talk about him with Guilt in her eyes. She quickly introduced me to her family, her best childhood friend, i was very wonderful to her. It was all very perfect and intense, she confessed she was "sick" and "abused too much of the things she liked" and didnt want her contact to me to become a way of escaping herself. We became very close and intimate and one day she told me she wanted to be my girlfriend, that we should be formally in a relationship. I said yeah. The day after she met up with her ex to talk and after that she started acting very anxious ( she also has an eating disorder) she began to slowly push me away and even though i tried to be there for her she didnt let me, i decided to leave her alone ( something personal happened to me- ) and she was not there for support of any type- instead , one day i found a letter in my mailbox from her telling me " our time together was a short adventure and that maybe this wasnt the end or maybe it was etc" and Brochure for her Therapist, so I can also go to Therapy... I wrote an honest letter to her, offering my friendship and went all the way to her place to talk as an adult and offer her my caring and my friendship but she said " im not ready for a friendship with u". 3 days later, she posted pictures of her ex boyfriend at her place on Facebook , which deeply hurt me so i Erased her from facebook. 
She never told me she had BPD but it really sounds like she does, I have a feeling she never really trusted me and always saw me as some sort of "gigolo" without any reasons. 
I dont want a relationship to her, but I care a lot about her and it hurts that she could just walk away like that from me. 
Do they make second reappearances?