Hello, I'm new to this site and was hoping someone could help me.  I'm having trouble with my girlfriend who I've been with for almost a year.  I feel that we've struggled way too much for people to have been together in relatively a short time.  She is happy as ever (as far as I can tell)  but I've been struggling since the 5th month.  This passed summer I kept learning of all these hurtful things that she admitted to doing to me on purpose for her personal gain.  She spent a fair amount of time treating me like dirt, pretending to not realize it, only to admit that it was retaliation.  Early in our relationship she confessed that she was in love with me.  I told her I felt the same way, when honestly I wasn't sure.  This being my first relationship.  A few days later she started commenting on what kind of father and husband I'd be in the future (not necessarily towards her but in general?).  So I talked with her and said that we needed to slow down that I felt she was a bit over-eager.  She asked me if my "I love you" was forced.  I explained that it wasn't forced but I was not completely sure of how I felt.  This happened last January.  Thats what she claimed retaliation.  I know it was the wrong thing to do but I was confused and wasn't sure of how to handle things.  I keep assuming we're passed it but whenever she does anything that hurts MY feelings, she reminds me of how she let go of "the time you retracted your I love you."  She talks a lot about other men and how attractive they are.  I told her before how it makes me uncomfortable but it has yet to stop.  She admitted before to doing things like that to make me jealous to give her more attention.  She swears she doesn't do that anymore but I've caught her a number of times trying to spend time with other men in odd situations.  When I get suspicious and try talking to her, she never fails to turn it around on me and make it about my trust issues.  I don't think she's cheating on me with these guys but I don't think her jealousy games have stopped either.  I've tried ending the relationship twice and both times she reacted to the extreme.  The first time she drove to my house begging for another chance, the second time she became hysterical and started crying. Begging me to stay with her, she said she needs me in her life.  I guess my question is if I'm in fact in an emotionally abusive relationship.  If I should get out of it, how do go about doing this, seeing as how both times previously failed.