Hello
 I am a 23 year old woman and I have to run tests for schizoaffective disorder soon.
They have also done full bloodwork,MRT,liver values,kidney and thyroid testings which went back well.
 My delusions are not like the "normal psychosis" lasting for weeks or months with some fixed delusional ideas.
 They are kind of thoughts coming to me very quickly,like associations and short bizarre paranoid ideas,resolving quickly and coming to my mind again for a certain period of time (over some days or over two or three weeks).
 Some examples:
 1.)There was an article in our newspaper about a young woman in a special town near of us.
My father said the same day,but a bit later that he has to go to that town for buying something (he normally goes there).
Then I thought that my father wants to go to this woman and betray my mother (although they have a very good marriage).
Then the thought disappeared after ten minutes or half an hour and I knew that I was thinking wrong...
 2.) I am driving  normally with my car, then seeing the police and I think that they want to get me because they could possibly think that I have done something wrong or that I could have driven someone over without recognizing it (although I didn`t)
 3.) I look into the face of my friend and suddenly get very scared because I think that I have done something which has upset him,ask him if I had done something wrong, but withouth a reason for it.
 4.) I think of a person very strong withouth wanting it (kind of compulsive) and then think he/she could read my thoughts because I am thinking so much about him/her.
 5.) I live like in a kind of "film",everything seems a bit unreal and far away from me and I had this occuring thoughts that I could have spoken about my thoughts loudly or that I could speak about my thoughts incidently and I am kind of in my own world
 6.) The feeling that everyone is staring at me or talkig about me and there is something wrong with my appearance.
 7.) very sudden manic ideas and personality changes appearing in the time of an hour,it all feels like being poisoned by drugs.
  These are examples of some of that quick delusions and thoughts coming to my mind over some short periods of time again and again but inbetween I have no delusions.
 I have no family history of mental illness,personality disorders,bipolar,schizoaffective disorder,schizophrenia or depression,only one case of "only" phobic anxiety in a grandparent. ( I also have recurrent phobias for some time periods) and I have never experienced a trauma and had a beautiful childhood.
I have never heard voices but sometimes have louder seeming thoughts and strange voices or pictures only in head.
And I had some quick and very mild optical halluzinations like coloured spots or saw the walls a bit different.
But this lasted only for some seconds.
 And I don`t take drugs.
 Do you think that it could be (also) more a brief or atypical psychosis?
 Yours sweetwoman :)