Okay, I'm going to start at the beginning. I gave birth via emergency c-section in March of 2012 to my beautiful, health,intelligent, funny, loving daughter, Edyn Faith. Shortly after giving birth...I'd say near the time I stopped breastfeeding which I did for six weeks, I started having problems. At first it was a pain that would come and go on my left side from my ribs to just below my belly button, I eventually had my gallbladder removed because my WBC was constantly high and it wasn't functioning great, but I basically had to convince the doctor to just take the darn thing out in February 2013. For about a month I seemed better, then the pain came back with a vengeance, the pain before would come and go and when it came would only last maybe a night or a whole day...now I was having bouts of pain that last 3-4 days about every other week (which I now believe to be during menstruation and ovulation, but at that point didn't see the correlation). I was referred to a gastro doc who did a endoscopy and colonoscopy and he diagnosed me with IBS (which I lovingly refer to as "it's ********". He put me on antidepressants, told me to watch the food I eat and keep a food diary and made suggestions it was all in my head. Meanwhile, since my gallbladder removal I had been still experiencing high WBC, high alkaline phosphate levels, my red cell distribution width was off and my C-reactive proteins were always high and my spleen has stayed slightly enlarged since the birth of Edyn. The fatigue that started out in 2012 as very slight and I blamed on new mommy syndrome was now getting debilitating and my pain would rarely go away anymore, I would be bedridden for days because of the intensity of the pain and the fatigue. Slowly the pain seemed to move down further, now it was in my groin and I would tell my hubby it felt like contractions and I could feel my uterus stretching, pulling, repositioning itself. Well, after finally noticing the correlation between my menstrual cycle and since the pain had moved down I went to my gyno who I saw before my pregnancy, but didn't handle my pregnancy. He said I needed a laparoscopic exploratory surgery because he thinks it a endometriosis, but he no longer did surgery, so he referred me to his partner. He performed the surgery and found "old endometriosis" which he didn't feel comfortable biopsying, much less removing because it was on a major blood vessel deep down on my uterus, but he did remove a large adhesion on my left side. I thought okay, great, adhesion and endometriosis make sense (my mom had endo and it was bad, but wasn't constant like mine). He decided to put me on Lupton a few week a later because I couldn't do regular birth control after a suspected pulmonary embolism in Dec 2013, it was now late March 2014, after the initial surge of pain the Lupron seemed to help, but I consequencely lost my job due to having so much time off because I was in constant pain now of a varying degree always at least a 5, but 80% of the time a 10 or above, so I lost my private insurance and was only able to afford a shot for April and May. I applied for Medicaid in April and because of some mix up, didn't get my approval until just recently and my gyno who prescribed the Lupron didnt accept Medicaid, so I went back to the gyno who handle my pregnancy. She was quick to state she couldn't figure out how he didn't biopsy anything during the exploratory surgery because of my grandmother having breast and cervical cancer and my symptoms, however she was sure putting me on Mirena IUD would be helpful and said she'd want to wait until at least January 2015 to open me up for another exploratory, so in the meantime, let's try to control the endometriosis, even though she made it clear she doubted that diagnosis but if the Lupron helped it must be!! So, she said I'd have to wait to start my period before she could place the IUD but said she wanted me to start on my own be a use she didn't wanted to give me anything with estrogen, which I didn't get at first, but now I understand. Thankfully, the day before my next visit to check my status I started on my own and it was horrible. Anyways, I went to have the IUD and almost jumped off the table when she was trying to measure the depth of my uterus, I heard her whisper to the nurse that I needed a D&C and I could tell by the look on the nurses face that something was not right. She discontinued even trying to measure my uterus and told me I have cervical stenosis and she could only get about an eighth of an inch in and I was dying in pain. She said she would want me to get a transvaginal ultrasound, and said no wonder you've been hurting, I need to go in there and have a look around and take biopsies so we will also schedule a D&C with a hysterscope and handed me a pamphlet about polyps and fibroids. The nurse scheduled my ultrasound on the very next opening spot, I stopped my period the morning the day before my ultrasound, they found nothing but a couple cysts on my left ovary, which I always have, and couldn't even visualize my right ovary and my endometrial thickness was 5cm the day after my period ended. My gyno's nurse called and told me everything looked fine, but we were going to go ahead and schedule the D&C with hysterscope which I went in to schedule the following Monday, at that time my gyno said she had decided to do another exploratory surgery at the same time as the D&C and hysterscope because she wanted to have a look herself. She said she would be doing lots of biopsies and such to check for something the naked eye could miss. 
Shortly after I started the Lupton I had started noticing a watery, clear discharge, which didn't go away on lupron, since the beginning of January I have bouts of nausea/no appetite, my belly stays bloated, sometimes when I move laying on my belly I feel something moving, now in the last three month a my left hip especially, but both hips hurt like a tugging pain, and the pain has even went down to my calves all down my leg to the point where it hurts to walk. My last visit to the ER for pain which was the day after my transvaginal they did a CT and found nothing, but my WBC was almost 18,000. I have always had bad periods, was put on bc at 14 to help control although I didn't lose my virginity until 18. I have had 6 sexual partners, no one night stands, I don't have any STDs, the IBS meds never helped neither did changing my diet, I constantly grow cysts (which I know is normal) but they always seems to be on the left and always multiple and they burst A LOT. I don't remember if I mentioned this, but I was also found to be anemic back in January to the point I had to have multiple iron infusions. If I forgot to mention anything I will comment. I'm typing this on my phone so forgive typos. Just wondering what other people might have gone through for a uterine, cervical, ovarian, etc. cancer diagnosis and if this makes sense to anyone. My Mom had two scares with abnormal pap smears and every one of her sisters have had total hysterectomies because of abnormal pap smears and/or fibroids/polyps. I'm having the procedures and surgery on the 18th. Thanks!