I was diagnosed with Dysthymia & anxiety when I was about 14yo.
 I have never used anti-depressants or meds only relying on myself to get through my problems.
 I am now 32 & I can recognise that I have come along way since those days when I couldn't even leave the front door & go to the letter box.
I have been able to complete university & start my own business. The dysthymia & anxiety have never gone away but I've been able to deal with or ignore it as needed (most of the time).
 So why do I feel terminal?
Well that begins about 13 years ago when I met a woman with Borderline Personality Disorder.
We quickly fell deeply in love & our relationship has been quite a roller coaster. But I have invested my entire heart & soul into the relationship & promised her I'd never turn my back on her.
 However, when ever she stops her antipsychotic meds she has a downward spiral blames me for it & wants to end the relationship.
These episodes have happened about 4-5 times in those 13 years & slowly I began to get use to dealing with it & even found strategies to settle her & get her back on the meds.
 But in the last 12 months my life has really crumbled to dust, she has stopped her meds on 3 occasions, then my father died, then I went deaf in my left ear for no known reason, that was followed by a miscarriage of our pregnancy.
Then about 4 weeks ago due to my partner stopping her meds she went downhill & started splitting but this time tried to OD.
I took her to hospital & she was sent to an inpatient rehab place.
Over the last 4 weeks she has said she wants to break up & then she says she wants to fix things.
She keeps kicking me out of our home we've had for 8 years & I've been living in my car.
 I was back with her for a week & we were like a couple again, sleeping in the same bed, cuddling & she would hold my hand & kiss me & tell me she loves me then the next day would say she didn't want to kiss & hold hands.
Then we spent a day looking for a new house together then the next day she wasn't interested anymore.
Then she tells me she needs a break for 3 weeks after we booked a holiday together. So I am suppose to live in my car for 3 weeks then come back for the holiday & then I think she wants me to disappear again.
The other thing she was saying was that she wants to get back together but maybe in 2 years. So I'm suppose to put my life on hold for 2 years.
She also stated she hates men yet has now surrounded herself with a heap of new male friends.
I have never seen her this bad before & I have even managed to get her back on the meds?
 The situation is so stupid and irrational & my head says leave but I deeply love her & committed to her.
And after the drama of the last 12 months I'm already mentally drained & I don't think I have the strength to start my life over again if our relationship really ends.
 I have pretty much decided that after our holiday I'm going to overdose while she is asleep, at least I can delude myself & believe that I am dying somewhat happy & next to the woman I love?
 I just feel so empty & I have nothing left.
I've even stupidly spent my entire life savings trying to make her happy, but for her the world is not enough.
My business is failing because I worked from the home that I am no longer welcome in.
 I must sound like the dumbest man in the world but why am I so in love with this crazy woman?
I've helped her change her life so much for the better than it would really sadden me to see her go backwards & waste her life.
 Also I think being her full time cater distracted me from my own problems?
 Anyway if after the holiday with her, if things don't get better than I'm pulling the plug, I'm basically already dead.
I'm just going to enjoy the last few weeks & die somewhat happy.