I get so angry. I've seen so many counselors. I've tried so many medications and practices. I just...I just want to be normal. I feel like the worst human being ever, and I'm beginning to think I'm crazy. 
 As a little girl, I was beaten, molested, told I was overweight and stupid, and was treated with counselors, more medications than I can count, and out of eight kids, I was the one who always struggled to follow directions, do my school work, and fit in. I was an outcast at school, the pudgy one out of my large family, and I hit myself when I got mad. My parents have divorced different partners 3 times, my mom married one who did terrible things to us, my dad married a woman who verbally and physically abused us. I wet the bed until I was 15, and every night, I rocked back and forth until I fell asleep. My doctor said I would grow out of it. I didn't. I looked it up online one day, and read that continuous rocking was indicative of mental instability. I cried.
 At 18 I got pregnant, had the baby. The mother of my boyfriend hated me. I had no idea what I was doing at the time, I just wanted to keep my baby safe, and the statistics about abused kids becoming abusive parents terrified me. I had Post-partum depression, had no idea (because I had no idea what I was even doing), and she convinced me that having bad dreams about my baby dying was the result of me not wanting him. Eventually, almost a year in, after her son cheated on me twice, and they took the child with them when he left (and the cops let them) and refused to let me have him back (and technically it was legal for them to do it), I shut down, I believed her, gave up custody of him, and buried myself in a job to pay child support. I dove right into another relationship with someone I didn't love, because they were taking so much of my money for child support and insurance, I couldn't afford to live by myself. I left him a year later for someone I did love. At this point, I began to realize something was wrong. 
 The next guy I dated knew that too. I was vicious when I got angry, screamed at him, when things got really bad, I would scream so loud I couldn't think anymore, hit myself, and curl up in a ball. I had NO control over myself. After he tried to deal with *that* for two years, we broke up. I tried to take care of myself, went to church, tried to get better, but nothing helped. I tried "faith", I tried medications, I tried counseling. I was honestly pretty fine until someone tried to get close to me, then eventually, I would get frustrated and feel taken advantage of, then I'd get mad, black out, etc. 
 I met my now husband online, we fell in love, I got pregnant, we got married. He hasn't had a job since we met because he got injured. I've run a successful business for almost 4 years, enough to keep things going. (I guess I consider it a success in that it pays the bills) while he got injured, went on L&I, tried going to school, flunked out, got a job for 11 days, and got injured again. Through all that, I juggled the bills, took care of our baby, and had angry blackouts constantly. I hated that I had no stability. I hated that I didn't respect him because he wasn't contributing, even though his physical issues were very minor (like his fingers had no feeling in them, that's what the whole problem was over) and I hated that I couldn't take my business to the next level because all the money was going to pay the bills. 
 I don't know how.....I don't know when....I just know that one day, I broke past the no-hitting barrier, and began to punch him in the arm when we fought. I slapped him. I kicked him. It grew and grew, and he never hit me back, and after I came back down, we'd pick up the pieces and try to move forward. We went to marriage counseling. She advised we divorce, since he didn't want to get a job. We stayed together, because I can't live alone, and I won't leave without my baby, and I'm terrified the same thing will happen again. 
 I love my husband. But he has issues of his own. I can't seem to fix mine. I want my marriage to work. I want to break the chain of violence in my family. My son has watched me scream and hit and sob and melt down, and I know it's hurting him to, but I can't. control. it. And I have no more faith in counselors or medications. They all just seem to tell me "I just need to," as if getting a divorce is the end all of this problem that has made me feel pain my entire life. 
 I don't know what to do. I want to end the pain, I want to stop losing my **** when I get angry. I want to be there for my kid. I want to be normal. I want to stop feeling like a monster. 
 I guess.....I just wanted to say it in a place where I wouldn't be judged and called a monster.