i spend a lot of time by myself. i can be inside my apartment for a whole week without going outside at all.  i have always even as a child i have had a inner fury. I needed growth hormone shots to grow until i was 12. so i wasn't very big. but i didn't let my size stop me, as a kid i always fought back against bullies, or saving others from bullies. i could even take on my dad on wrestling matches. 
  anyways, lately my anger i never know when it will happen because i get these mood swings that hit me like a brick, i can feel content, total bliss like i'm cloud nine, and i can feel sad, and i can even get angry and i just hate the world and everyone in it. i just get so angry, before i'd just hit the bed left, right, left, right. i'd just keep going until i was out of breath. but lately i have been pounding my table, or the wall. i don't know if its going to get worse or not. lastnight when i got angry i just told myself, whatever and told myself its just a test so i decided to work out and watch something on netflix, when the problem got worse then i started to get angry again, remaining in control from when the problem first happened, only to wind up pounding the wall hard with the side of my fist. i feel like the beast within i keep caged is breaking its chains and breaking its way out by force. 
  i even have dreams where i just yell and everything around me gets picked up by this tornado and big wind destroying everything in its path but leaves me alone because i'm the one that's making it. other times i yell in a dream and stone shatters, buildings fall around me, things just get demolished. and in real life i just want to yell so bad, but if i did other people would sure panic and probably call 911. i can get really loud. and i don't drive so i can't just drive to middle of nowhere and just let it all out.
  i thought of buying a punching bag, but i fear if i get one and if i get mad that will be my first option to do, just hit something. i just hope this is something that can be fixed just by talking about it.