Hello all. Thank you in advance for any input you may be able to give me. I'm going to do my best to tell my whole story but keep it short. My main concern is that I am wondering if what I have been dealing with is actually coming from depression/anxiety as my doc suggests, or possibly something else.
 I'm a 33 y/o male. Last Summer around July I went through what I call a "lazy spell". Sleeping a lot and not very motivated to do any sort of work. I had lazy spells before and usually came out of them and would become active and be working hard again on projects. Moving forward on the timeline I became very very tired and developed almost a dizziness/vertigo/brain fog type of feeling accompanied by tinnitus. Not extremely over-powering but definitely noticeable and enough to keep me from being as active as I'd like to be. Around this same time I also noticed my neck became very stiff, I had head pressure like sensations on the back of my head where the neck meets the head. Constant Tension Headache?  I began to let these feelings sort of sink in and it made my anxiety/brain fog worse. I just did not feel like myself and I felt rather disconnected from reality.
 Went to a doc and she saw a middle ear infection and thought that was what was causing my problems. Went on a 10 day antibiotic and the supposed infection went away but my symptoms did not. Went to an ENT shortly thereafter and he gave me a clean bill of ear health. He did not think my symptoms were inner ear related.
 Along with all of this I also experienced eye perception differences. Sort of a lazy stained eye feeling with both eyes. Not blurry vision or anything but very sensitive to light and a general sense that my sharp vision was not as sharp as it was before. Hard to explain. 
 Forward again, now I get my thyroid tested. TSH was a 4.2. Slightly hypo. Went on hormone treatment. Levels normalized but my symptoms did not subside. Still on treatment and not feeling much different.
 Went to GP multiple times regarding thyroid as possible cause of symptoms but after he saw that I had been level for a while he suggested that thyroid was not my problem and that I was depressed given my mood/symptoms. Been seeing a really great dietician now for about 6 weeks and she too believes that thyroid is not my problem. As I have been eating an extremely healthy diet and been taking supplements such as 5htp and st johns wort for about a month, I have noticed some small glimmers of hope that I am going to come out of whatever this thing is but generally I still feel as though my symptoms are lingering and not improving much if any at all. I guess I could be making progress that is hard for me to see.
 So basically, could this be depression? I have wondered of some other things. I did have a CT scan of my head and came back normal. I have wondered about a neck problem. Haven't been to a chiro yet but planning on it. Thought about Lyme, doc ruled it out, I don't really live in a lyme area. I really don't think its that.
 Just curious if anybody else has had a bout with depression that sounds anything like this. And if so, what did you do to beat it and how long did it take?
 Thanks again for your time in reading this. I appreciate any advice or suggestions.