I need help!! I have been in a relationship for over two years now!! And he is 95% of the time amazing to me he adores me and does anything and everything for me!! I have a son who he also adores!! We have a complicated relationship at times as we started in our relationship both in other relationships.. I know that's awful but I want you to know the facts!! We have a love that is truly one of a kind we spend so much time together and enjoy so many things together and are best friends and soul mates.. We have a great sex life, friendship, everything!! 
The problem is in the past two years there have been maybe ten occurrences where he has just lost it!!! Reminds me alot of bipolar disorder or some other sort of issue maybe anger related.. I don't know these episodes last anywhere from half hour to several hours!! He becomes extreamly verbally abusive and degrading.. Saying very personal things to attack me things from my past, and things reguarding my health that I cannot control.. And things he I usually very excepting of!! He has became physical as to where he will hold me down, push me, push me off the bed/on the bed, into walls or doors..  He had threatened to hit me but never has. Grabbed my face and neck, my arms pretty much everything rough except hitting me..
I am just very confused on whether to stay or leave!! I am not one to stick around usually in a situation even similar to this, but because most of the time he is amazing I have always forgiven him. He will always come up to me after the fight or break down during the fight and will come say sorry an how awful he is, and how he doesn't know what comes over him to make him say and do these things andbhow he doesn't feel that way at all.. And I am just tired of this game and tired of this other person coming out of my boy friends body at the most random times and for silly reasons I don't know what to do anymore.. I want him to understand I won't stand for this forever and he needs help and to change his way or he will push me away when he swears I'm everything to him!!! Please help