Back in 2000 I was involuntarily given PCP in a blunt that I had bought. I have never had smoked this dangerous street drug before, nor have I had any reservations to. The person that sold it to me had 2 pre-rolled blunts (marijuana in a cigar) and examined them very carefully. I had been drinking earlier that day and found out later that the alcohol clouded my judgement. I smoked the Blunt and within minutes after I smoked it I began to hallucinate both visually and auditory as well. The remainder of the night was a slight blur, as my memory had  snippets of missing time. 
About 2 months afterward, I began exhibiting stages of Schizophrenia, as I would often hear voices and occasionally see things on the corners of my 180 degree sight. Before I realized it I was homeless, talking to myself and extremely paranoid, almost violently paranoid. I had never been diagnosed with a Mental Illness before, nor anyone in my family for that matter. I had always been a productive member of society, working and coming home. Hanging out and enjoying life until the exposure happened. 
One night at the Shelter I was living at, the Consulars had determined that I was more of a danger to myself than to anyone else and pushed for my first Hospitalization to a Psych ward. I was prescribed a cocktail of psychotropic medications and allowed the time for them to build levels in my body to balance me out psychologically. After 2 weeks of being released from NYC's Belleview hospital, I returned exactly 2 weeks later. The shelter that I had called home had refused to accept me back as a result of my worsening condition. And Belleview had a policy that they could not, by Law release a patient with Mental Illness to the street without an address. I stayed in Belleview for 2 months and then sent to Rockland State Psychiatric Hospital Center for a total of 11 months. In order for my release I had to have a Court Order signed by a Judge. Then I was released to the care of FEGS and placed in an Adult Rehabilitation inpatient / outpatient transitional home for a period of no more than 2 years. It was formally known as a MICA (Mentally Ill Chemical Abuser) facility.
There I was given medications and AA and NA group therapy settings as part of my treatment. I slowly started to regain portions of my stability back and after a total of 3 years, was sent to a CRSRO (Community Residence Single Room Occupancy) that had a Nurse on staff and similar Group Therapy sessions I was familiar with when I resided in the state hospital. 
My question is before my exposure to PCP I've never had heard voices or hallucinated. But after I smoked it, my Psychosis had taken form. So what I would like to know is , has anyone else in a similar situation had ever attributed Mental Illness to drug use?