Please put yourself in my shoes for a minute.
 Imagine you are in a happy, healthy, loving relationship and suddenly, out of the blue your husband comes home and says that he's not in love with you anymore and that he is leaving - no discussion, no consultation, no warning.  You knew nothing.  He talks sternly to you throughout the night and you both fall asleep exhausted only to wake like you've been punched in the stomach 2 hours later and you turn to your husband and say "are you awake" and you know he is.  Then you start talking and he gets angrier and angrier at you because you want answers and he doesn't have any only to say incredibly hurtful words to you that you have no idea where they are coming from and you don't know who is saying them because you suddenly realise that the person who told you less than an hour before they came home that they love you now tells you they are not in love with you anymore and they are leaving.
 Within the space of 9 hours your world is turned upsidedown.  You come home from work and see your husband's clothes and personal belongings have been removed from the house you shared and you wander around in a daze of confusion looking at photos upon photo's that remind you of a great life with family and friends and wedding photo's of less than 7 years ago.
 You don't eat or sleep.
 The next day your husband comes back and walks past you like you were an ex flatmate and proceeds to gather more of his gear and then looks at you while you are howling with the sheer pain of it all and he tells you that he has done nothing wrong here as he walks out the door again.
 Then 3 days later he tells you, via an email from work, that he is coming over to my house to collect more of his stuff so it's out of the way when I get home.  This is attached to many emails that he has sent within the last 2 weeks organising Christmas, camping and how much he loves you.
 You are bewildered, confused and stunned.
 You spend another night not just crying but howling your heart out and you can not believe the depths of your sorrow.  This continues for weeks.
 You manage, somehow, to go to work but you can't concentrate because everything and everywhere reminds you of your husband and the future he promised you.
 All the while you keep repeating the words in your head - I'm not in love with you anymore and I am not coming back.  The pain is unbearable.
 None of the answers make any sense and your husband seems simultaneously angry and sad that he's done this to you and the way it was done to you but he is reluctant to admit that.  
 He tells people that I was a great wife and that he had a good life but it's been 6 weeks and he's moved on.
 Your husband said that it is not your fault but he blames you.
 Your husband resents the child you had together but only feels obligated to see him.
 Your husband calls you by his first wife's name.
 Your husband drags issues into your marriage that were not dealt with in the first marriage.
 Your husband loves you as a person but is not in love with you.
 Your husband said the biggest mistake was not talking to you throughout the last 12 months to sort out these issues and see a marriage counsellor.
 Your husband is focusing on the negatives and not the positives.
 Your husband tells you he will find someone else again to be with - that one kills.
 Your husband forgets the last 10 years of the life you shared together.
 Your husband tells you he had an amazing life with you but now it's over.
 Your husband just walks away.
   Do you honestly wonder why I struggle with all of this?
  I loved and adored him.
 I still do.