since aroud 2000 my husband showed signs of ED. we were then 10 years into a pretty good relationship. this is a 2nd marriage for both . i have a daughter by an earlier marriage. he has been a pretty good foster parent too. we lost a son at birth , after a series of missed abortions... no kids thereafter.  though he has been  always known to be quick tempered, all his family is. they  do talk abt it themselves, .......anyway this did not affect our relationship thru 10 years.......then , he was not too occupied. we ran a business ,so i did most of the admin: he just came for a few hrs to see to the finances. . he spends hour after hour on the TV!...now the problem is, he is violent. in the last 10 years, he has had at least 10 temper tantrums , he intimidates me, and belittles me and my family. i used to try so hard to forgive and carry on
. he cannot sit and discuss anything, he gets angry gets up and paces up and down ranting . last december, while having a cup o f tea this happened. then he hit me hard on the head with his hand . and i was still seated, he came at me from the far end of the room and kicked me form the side. fortunately, i had a bad  bruise only on my arm,but my spirits are totally devastated.
he has threatened me that i am not to call anyone to talk to him....etc.i have waited just over 4 months. he has shown no sense of remorse whatever. in fact, on a couple of occasions he verbally kept abusing and cursing! also, said" i shld have murdered you!.'
before i talk to friends and family, i wish to know, if this could be pathological?he suffers from Erectile dysfunction. i have never made that an issue. there have been times he can be the most loving person!.he is a control freak. now, his issues are money related,too..he wont let me even discuss matters even though my incomes are also invovled. i wouldn't have minded if our  relationship was on a sound footing. 
 could he have any phychological disease? HE DOES NOT WANT  ME TO SEEK ANY HELP!
I need an answer before i talk to my family! at  what is perhaps the' fall' of life ., i do want some peace and tranqulity in a marriage.