Hello everyone,
 Ummm....not sure how to ask this but I am just really confused. A close lesbian friend of mine has been dating another woman for a couple of years. Myself and another friend have kind of suspected that she may be a compulsive liar and make dramatic things up sometimes, possibly for pity and attention. My friend just confided a lot of things in me which point to the fact that her girlfriend is emotionally abusive to her and also that her girlfriend has some long standing psychological issues, like self-harming and suicidal ideations and attempts.
 I'm not sure how to say this without sounding awful and getting hated, but her girlfriend says she has ovarian cancer and while I really want to believe her, I'm just not convinced.....The girlfriend told our mutual friend she had cancer a while ago but my friend thought that something about the story doesn't add up. My lesbian friend just confided in me that her girlfriend has had ovarian cancer for six months and that she had had it in the past. Apparently she has been getting cancer medications and chemotherapy illegally from some doctor, without keeping any medical records of it at all. She claims the reason she did this is because she really wanted to have kids with my friend through IVF and that there might be too much pre-screening and costs involved if she has it on her record that she has ovarian cancer. Also she claims that she had unsuccessfully used IVF in the past after she'd had ovarian cancer, but then gave birth to a child naturally.
 The other thing is she says she's gained huge amounts of weight because she's on some kind of cortisone or steroids and I don't think that's a treatment for ovarian cancer...? Apparently she is not getting the chemotherapy that often because of the illegal way she's doing it. She has never wanted my friend to go to any of the appointments with her. Her hair doesn't seem damaged at all from the chemotherapy and in fact she dyed it recently. My friend said her hair is thinning a bit but overall it looks completely fine and she has very long hair.
 My question is, does any of this sound plausible? Am I just being awful or is there something not right about this? I'm so sorry if I've offended anyone but I'm just really concerned for both my friend and her girlfriend.