I just turned 18, i'm a girl btw. 1st: school.  I just started college in Sep. all my classes are extremely hard and require so much work. I've bee so stressed in school. i think i kinda gave up. i don't care about anything. i never do my hw or pay attention in class. i cant concentrate at all. the teachers assign us to read the textbook and i cant. As much as i used to try i couldn't concentrate. i'm pretty sure i'm failing every class & i feel like there's no way i could even come out of it because i cant makeup all the work. And i want to be a doctor so this really makes me sad. 2nd: this guy. i lost it to this guy and he was an ******* & treated me like **** and i was like super depressed over him for like 3months last summer ( i think i feel in love with him), and last month i liked this other guy (hes been my friend for a while) & we had sex and i really like him now. but he has a gf :( im mad cuz of the sitution i got myself into with him. i'm not a hoe, sex means something to me, as much as i wish it didn't, i cant help catching feelings. :( 3rd: my mom lost her job. My dad doesnt live with us, he doesnt pay anything. Our apt is big and it costs alot. idk how were gonna live here. and i feel so bad for my mom cuz she looks sad also. i dont ask for money anymore so i cant go clubbing or really do anything. 4rd: my best friend ( a girl )got mad at me. were known each other for about 9years and introduced her to my friends and now she chills with them, even though were not talking.  5th: my other best friend ( a guy ) stoped talking to me also. we didnt get into a fight or anything we just dont really talk anymore. but he lives in my bulding. he hits up my other best friend to chill but not me ?? -_- i think somethings wrong with me since im losing all my friends 6th: everyone tells me im super bipolar. i used to think that was crazy, but lately i feel crazy. i get super mad at little things. for example the other day my friend said he was gonna meet me at my house but he didnt come and i got extremely mad. i felt like a million things were going on in my head. i just kept walking back and fourth through my room then i threw my phone and left my house and walked around my house super mad. when i got back home i cryed for like 20mins and then cleaned my room in a rage at like 1am. i woke up the next morning and couldnt beleive i cleaned it ( it was super messy and i hate cleaning my room). Its like im either SUPER hyper or quiet. 7th: Its weird because when i go out with my friends ill look so happy & i do have fun with them but when i get home and get ready to sleep i usally cry and think about the worst things. i think cry everyday. 8th: i feel like i have no friends even though i do. like if my friends do one thing that i dont like, i feel like they totatlly betrayed me. idk why. and then i get super mad and then sad. for example my friend asks my other friend to chill with him. i felt like he didnt ask me to chill cuz he likes her better then me & he doesnt like hanging up with my anymore. 9th: i feel like i have no self-condicence. even though i act like i do. i think this makes me the most sad. i hate my body im super skinny like 95lbs eww. i think my color is horriable. like i just hate everything about me. i think thats why guys are assholes to me. & i hate my personality. i must be like a ***** or something since i have no real friends anymore. 10th: it gets me mad when my friends hang out with my other friends. I HAVE NO IDEA WHY. i wish i would be happy when that happens. but  i hate it. i guess i feel like they might like my friends better then me & then only hang out with them. idk but i hate that about myself.