Here is my story.
 Early last year I started talking to and met up with a young lady, and things rapidly progressed to a full on relationship in a very short time.
 I had a very tough time adapting to the relationship (even though it was highly charged romantic/sexually) because of her past - she had many partners over a short space of time , I tried not to judge this and see her for who she was while she was with me. She was honest with me, telling me everything being upfront (take me or leave me) situation. 
 We soon progressed and managed to have some good times, although she would always talk about how crazy her family were (here parents split while she was young) 
 In August last year we found the news that we were going to have a baby , (born this year in May)
much of the pregnancy was exciting, it seemed like a life long dream come true.
I am 35 she is 21 so there is a huge age gap .
 I had some doubts about wanting the baby, and my instinct kept nagging me "this is not right this is not it" 
 Things seemed fine , going well, we moved into new house near her family, preparing, I had good money. 
 Now about 2 months after the baby was born .. Bang! it's like she become a different person, it was scary, I was expecting some recovery and adapting after having a baby, its a huge life change. 
(baby is 16 weeks now)
 But.. this somehow feels different, I have been to post natal support groups to see if it is the recovery process but some how something in my instinct nags "this is BPD, this is it" 
Her mother takes medication for depression and her dad has been hospitalised for depression in his past.
Main problems are:
 1. Severe bouts of jealousy, thinking I will cheat or look at every other women.
2. Arguements that can come out of the blue, out of thin air and escalate very quickly to her leaving and go back to her mums "you wont see me again, you wont see baby"
3. You never supported me! accusations, (I had spent 12000 dollars or more moving , buying house stuff, baby stuff to prepapre) but no matter how much I do it was never enough
4. Going quiet withdrawn, cant leave the house 
5. No empathy at all, when I have been ill with stomach problems she called me "weak" while I rested in bed
6. "That's it it's over!" then a phone call a day later "Can I come home now really sorry for keep running away" 
7. No friends or outside interests of herself/baby (which links back to when I first knew her, no close friends, sleeping with bad people before me) 
8. A constant feeling of being tense around her, not at ease. I do feel she tells me one thing and over people another to manipulate the story.
 I have tried to read up and find information, but I am stuck into which camp she is in.
 a. she is finding it hard to recover from having a baby and my emotional support is weak
b. she is post natal and it will fade after a while with right support.
c. she is BPD. my greatest fear 
 a and b I think I can manage and pull through 
c. if this is permanent then it will be too exhausting for me.
 Question is - Should I develop a bond with my baby until she is old enough then see how the relationship is and stop my own suffering.
Or wait it out, see if my partner improves over time