Hi. I'm a 16 year old female. I've been going through some rough times for a while. On a physical note, I have two issues that need to be dealt with. I'm 97 lbs. It's not really that low but for 16 years old and being a short girl of 5'1" it's not that healthy. I've been told to start eating more. I have a few problems with this..I have a fast metabolism so what I do eat usually goes right through me, so to speak. I also forget to eat unless reminded, because I just don't get hungry. Then sometimes when I do eat, I get sick feeling and want to throw it up. It's all very uncomfortable. It doesn't help that I can look into the mirror and not be satisfied with my figure. I feel fat, and I know I'm not. I am also a cutter, though I have been trying to drop this habit. My parents don't know, and the one time my brother joked about it and tried to grab my arm I freaked out and blurted that the cat scratched me up. I don't want to see them looking at me like I'm crazy and I don't want to know what they'd think of me. I just don't know what to do on that. My other problem is that I am suicidal. I've had several suicide attempts. One of them was pretty recent. I just don't see the bright side to life anymore. My family is kind of broken. My parents are divorced, and though they are together, they are always badmouthing one another. Fights happen frequently. My brother always makes fun of me. I am a very self-concious person and have been trying to learn to love myself but so far I can only hate myself because I feel like I am hated by my family. I want their acceptance and miss the way things were when I was little. We recently moved across the country, and I left all my friends behind. I miss them TONS but it's even worse that only two of them bother trying to get in contact with me. I couldn't stand going to a public school out where I am because they are not my old school and I am a shy person, so I'm homeschooled. Miles away from everything familiar to me and my family being broken I am feeling very lonely. School isn't going so well either. I've lost all motivation for it. Lately I've been going into panic attacks, heart beating too fast starting to shake getting lightheaded wanting to throw up wanting to pass out. I feel like I'm a failure and knowing that soon I'll have to start saving up for college and get a job and then the prospect that I may not even get to go to college is so daunting. Lately I'm tired all the time and lightheaded and get strange feelings like the ground has turned to putty and is sucking me in. I don't sleep well anymore. I keep getting strange sharp pains in my stomach on the lower left side and sometimes on both sides up right under the rib cage. I have no idea what's going on with me or how to help myself..