Hi... I've never really posted here before, but read a few of the comments on similar topics and figured I would ask for some help. My boyfriend and I are engaged. He is 39 and I am 25. His ex wife is 53. I know, we have strange age differences. 
 Anyhow, He and his ex wife divorced about 2 and a half years ago, but I met him during the divorce. We started seeing each other and it really worked out between us. He is certainly the man of my dreams, and he tells me I am the woman of his. Anyhow, his ex-wife has two children both of which are not his. However, he has always been father to her second since they were married when he was only 5 years old. He is the only real father her son has had since his real father was an affair of hers and her first husband, not my fiance, divorced her because she got pregnant from her lover. 
 I suppose I will call him their mutual son because that is what they agreed on. He is 18 years old now and they claim to talk to one another so much because of the son. He is 18 years old though and in college. Additionally, he is in Greece. If he needs to know about his son he could call him and vice versa. And they do. His ex and he don't really have much to say to each other but when they talk they are on the phone for 45 minutes to an hour. It is really disturbing to me. During their divorce they would fight every day on the phone. When we moved in together it was much of the same. 
 Now, after two years, the fights have stopped, but now she just calls to say hello or to invite him places. It is just really disturbing to me. I can be more specific about things if needed. I just want some advice. My boyfriend and I both know she has serious boundary problems, but he doesn't seem to make an effort to push her away. She has tried dating, but her boyfriends leave her because of her rage issues, which is one reason my boyfriend and her divorced. I just don't want to turn around and see her everywhere I go. I don't mind her, but I feel like she is acting like a second wife to my fiance. She calls him to wish him luck on important meetings and trips etc. I am just very uncomfortable with it. I feel strange talking to her as well because she is as old as my mother. I just need some help, advice, etc. Am I being to selfish? I don't know... I have never been in this situation before. Any advice you can give will be greatly appreciated. Thank you.