I have an overbearing father that is emotionally and verbally abusive. he use's any reason to get mad. For instance if i drop a cup of water on the floor by mistake he'll get mad and start screaming about how he could do thing's better, and etc. He insults my mom all the time, but she pretends like he doesn't say those thing's, and takes his side and act like it's nothing serious.
My father tries to make me feel like i am nothing without him, and that I can achieve nothing. Every time I try to talk to him about my future career plans he knocks me down, and tells me that I can't do that, because no one wants that. I wanted to be a physical therapist, and he told me that no one needs a physical therapist. He looks at me with disgust, and tries to stop me from getting school work done. He'll go through my phone, and call my male friends and question them, and tell them how bad I am. He told me that I'm not allowed to have friends, if I'm talking to my mom about anything he interrogates me to know what I'm talking about. he's gone to my school to withdraw me because I hang around "bad people"(the worst thing they've done is come late to school, because they woke up late). He looks for way's to always talk about how smart he is and how great he is, and how no one can beat him in a fight, and how he's better than anyone. He gives me a headache, and makes me feel like killing myself. He's out of work right now, because his contract has ended, so he's on my case more. he drives around my school, ask's people to spy on me. Calls me constantly. When I miss one call by him he goes into a rage, and insults me and calls me a liar. He once tried to drown me by putting my head in a sink full of water. When he's especially mad he'll hit me with the nearest object, and threaten to kill me. 
 I'll be turning 18 in the winter of 2014 during my senior year of high school. Should I wait 6 more months and go off to college, or just get out on the day I turn 18, and live in a homeless shelter, relative, or friend.
 No I don't sneak out, or skip school, do drugs, or have sex. Even my student counselor talked to my dad because he see's me around school most of the time, and he even said to my dad that the problem most be at home.