Hi Guys.  I need some advice.
 I have been struggling a lot lately and have allowed my fears to get in the way of better judgment.
 I have been feeling 'quite' stressed and have been binge eating a lot, sleeping a lot and spending way too much time on the computer.  I think I may need help, but ... I'm scared!!
 Like I've said in other posts: I've been sectioned under the mental health act for severe depression (not a very nice experience), I've been forced to take medication (when I'm very anti-meds), I've been threatened with ect (had to go to court to fight that), I don't have a great relationship with my parents despite living with them (they don't understand this disorder and won't understand me asking for more support).
 So what do I do?  I'm not functioning very well, I've been having frequent suicidal thoughts and urges, and just generally, when I'm not chatting here, I feel absolutely miserable.  I've been really struggling for weeks and things have not been getting any better, or easier.
 I have been seeing a psychologist once a week for the past few weeks for constructive psychotherapy (basically a chat, not therapy).
I have also been seeing my GP weekly since my T left several months ago.  This will be the third week in a row that I've seen him twice a week.  Even with the additional contact, things are still deteriorating.
 I don't know what to do.  On the one hand I worry that I may harm myself and do serious damage, on the other, I see a system that has not been terribly helpful.  (I'm leaving some stuff out as it feels a little too graphic and personal to share here).
 I'm not sure what my options are.
-I could ring my GP, the psychologist (who is my mental health key worker) or the clinical director of mental health here (he has given permission for me to contact him directly if I have concerns, he is the boss and he was also the doctor who had me sectioned and he was the one who first said that ect would have to be considered as an option -after he revoked my leave).
-I can only see respite (which is more stressful than being at home), hospital (which would be extremely traumatic), medication (maybe?? -to reduce my anxiety??), seeing a psych nurse (whom I've never met before which will push my stress levels right up), or doing nothing as possible options.
 None of the above seem very palatable.  What do I do?  Any suggestions?
 J