I've been struggling with this for years and i feel frustrated and crazy sometimes that i can't get over it especially since i just graduated from high school and i want to move on with my life. well so i have struggled with depression and social anxiety since middle school. I was bullied pretty badly. girls would write on my locker curse words, throw basket balls at me and hit me in gym, girls would write notes telling me to go kill myself. i had trouble making friends, or when i made them i had trouble keeping them because they would eventually have friends who didn't like me or they wouldn't like me anymore. i was so afraid to have crushes, because there was this one boy i was good friends with and we would hang out all the time. i started to like him and out of no where he avoided me like the plague. this one girl in a class (she was sitting right next to me and he was sitting right next to her) said to him, "why don't you and (my name) talk anymore? i mean she does have a crush on you." i was scared because i never told anyone that i liked him. then he started laughing "well no ____!" he said "she makes it so obvious" then she asked him "would you go out with her then?" he laughed again, "are you serious?!" he said "she's so creepy and clingy" i was told that a lot in middle school and elementary school that i was creepy. but anyway, i would tell my parents this but they wouldn't listen to me because they were very busy taking care of my sister who is autistic so they would tell me to get over it. i hated them for years. but my mom finally saw that i was miserable so we moved to another state, where my cousins went to high school and i started high school there. its great! there is no bullying, everyone is so nice and I've been here since freshman year. heres the thing though, even though i don't go to that middle school anymore, i still struggle with thinking I'm creepy. i was afraid to talk to people for years and i just started making friends my senior year! but all the memories are coming back, i feel crazy but i keep fearing they won't like me anymore when i know thats not true. certain things remind me of memories from middle school and how lonely i was and ill just start crying. I'm so afraid of loosing friends, I'm so afraid of liking someone and they will find me creepy. i know none of this is true but the memories won't go away! i just want to move on. everything is fine now, people like me i have friends. but i keep getting reminders from the past and its driving me nuts. what should i do? (sorry this post was so long XD )