I am afraid my daughter is lying. I am a parent of a 16 year old girl who is very spoiled who grew up without her father but had a stepfather in her life for 11 1/2 years until I got pregnant and now have a 2 1/2 year old. I am now seperated from her stepfather for 7 months do to me leaving due to me falling for another man. It seemed she hated her stepdad from the beginning even though she was only 5 years old. Recently I told her it really wasn't working well with the new boyfriend and i was considering going back wtih her stepfather because he was a good man and he still loved me. She proceeded to tell me that he wasn't as good as I thought he was and that he had touched her when she was younger. When trying to find out what happended she was very hateful to me and told me she couldn't remember then she told me it happended when I would pick up my work but he was at work when I would go pick up work and when I told her this she said no it would happen when he went in to kiss her goodnight but I was always around and he wouldn't spend more than time enough to kiss her and tell her goodnight in her room. When asked when this happended she said when she was younger she couldn't remember however she also states that it happended since we moved into our new house which has only been 3 1/2 years ago. I have never seen any signs of this and feel like after 11 1/2 years of living wtih someone that I would know him and also I had been touched when by my moms boyfriend when I was 11 years old. Her stepfather doesn't at all have a very heavy sexual drive just the normal and has always been private to himself and has always keep himself covered and when she would come out of the bathroom sometimes with just a towel on he would tell her she needed to go put on clothes. They had been getting along for the past 2 years since the baby was born and since we have been seperated. Could I have not picked up on this or is it just another plot to get me alone? By the way she hates the new boyfriend and doesn't want him around me or to spend any time with me.