Good day:
 Throughout my twenties I used ephedrine for bodybuilding and occasionally as a "perk" or to get myself focused. I eventually worked up to ingesting something beyond the safe dosage on a regular or semi-regular basis, depending on how I built up my tolerance to it. Some months I'd use hardly any of the stuff. Other months I'd take a little bit every day. I am 32 years old now and I feel alright for the most part. My physicals come back perfect. They always have, actually. 
 Thankfully, I think I avoided the major long-term side effects, both physical and psychological. Perhaps I never took enough of the stuff to do any permanent damage, or I just lucked out. From what I recall, though, I did take an inordinate amount of the stuff and on a regular basis. Put simply: I followed my own label, not the one on the container. 
 I am concerned about depression, however. I'm not prone to it, and when I do feel "moody" it's more of a general brooding at which time my creative energies tend to become more expressive. I'm somewhat manic (I think), but not in any debilitating way, though I have never been diagnosed as such. Think of a poet or artist-type personality. 
 In any case, I do feel tired now and then, and sometimes overly-anxious. Again, this is not on a regular basis. 
 My questions:
 1) How can I restore adrenal balance?
2) How can I ensure that my body/brain is producing sufficient norepinephrine and/or associated neural stimulants on its own?  (I assume we're talking possibly phenylalanine or L-Tyrosine supplementation here. Correct?)
3) What can I do in general in terms of diet and lifestyle to ensure that if there were any negative effects that I might not feel right now, they would be mitigated?
 My work is more or less stress-free, in that I love what I do. I'm training to be a scholar, doing a Master's and hopefully a PhD in the area of Holocaust and Genocide Studies (in other words, History.) Making ends met financially is a source of stress, sometimes more than I'd like, but I tend to come out alright each time. It certainly isn't debilitating.
 I practice Kundalini Yoga (with a focus on Deep Meditiation.)
 I take a multivitamin, including Phosphatidylserine (PS) at prescribed dosages, and I drink 3-4 cups of high quality green tea every day. On days I'm not really able to do so I take green tea capsules in moderate amounts (I actually take a bit less than what is recommended, due to concerns about liver stress.) 
 My diet consists of fish, shellfish, tofu, vegetables, sushi, chicken, rice, fruit, yogurt, beans, a moderate amount of grains, and little to no alcohol. I very rarely (if at all) eat red meat, pork, beef, etc. I have done my best to cut those out of my diet, including fried foods as well as soft drinks. I drink only water, tea, and natural juices on occasion. I prefer a Japanese style-diet if I can manage it, though the ingredients are not always readily available. Once or twice a week I take a good protein supplement in powder form. A holdover from my iron-pumping days.  ;)
 I otherwise have no medical conditions, am not taking any medication, and besides being a bit too fixated on my work now and then as well as being a bit brooding and eccentric, I'm healthy and confident. 
 Any recommendations? I know I sound just fine but I'm still concerned about any possible (though insidious) damage that might have occurred from 7-8 years of regular ephedrine (ECA stack) use - not so much in terms of my cardiovascular health, but more in terms of my adrenal functioning and neurological health, etc.
 Best regards and thanks for your time, 
 Christian.