i'm 22 years old. i was diagnosed with with bipolar disorder NOS when i was 16, but i have been dealing with anger and depression for as long as i can remember. i've never had that "high" people with bipolar disorder say they have. it's always just been anger and depression. one day i came across an article on bpd and found out i have more of the symptoms of bpd than bipolar disorder. my therapist and psychiatrist said the two can overlap and it's likely that i have both. my anger and depression doesn't last for days or weeks or longer, it is for a few hours a day almost everyday. the two switch back and forth all the time. most of the time i don't even know why i get so angry. so many things irritate me and set me off that i know shouldn't but it's like i can't control it. usually somebody will say something that i take the wrong way or that i don't like and suddenly i'm pissed off. when i'm angry i say so many things i don't mean because i don't think before i say them and then i feel guilty afterwards. i just yell and argue until i feel like i'm done then i stop and it makes me feel horrible. when i'm not angry, i'm depressed. i feel worthless and like a complete failure. i never feel like i'm good enough for anyone. i have never liked anything about myself, at least not that i can remember. i feel like i am an all around bad person for being the way i am. i also have a history of cutting. i quit a few years ago, but everyday it takes everything i have in me not to start back. one of my biggest fears is being alone. i'm always afraid everyone is going to give up on me and leave. i also have abandonment issues. my birthparents left me for my grandmother to raise when i was about 2 years old. i'm so grateful my grandmother was there to take me in but i just feel like it's something i will never be able to get over. i'm currently on an anti depressant, a mood stabilizer, and an anti psychotic. some days it seems like they help but sometimes i just feel like i'm taking all these meds for no reason. but if anyone has any advice or comments or anything, i'd appreciate them. thanks :))