In August 2013 a trip to the ER with sudden pains showed a 3 inch mass on my right ovary.  10 days later I had the mass and ovary removed being told it was most likely benign.  It turned out to be stage 1 mucinous ovarian cancer.  I had just turned 37 and otherwise overall very healthy.  It was a shock to me and everyone that knew me but of course I know cancer is always a shock to anyone that experiences it.   Since 1st surgery was done by gynecologist who thought this was not cancer I had to have 2nd surgery 2 weeks later by oncologist.  All biopsies turned out negative and I did not have to have chemo.  Chances of recurrence 18 to 20%.  We were all very grateful.  I have always loved and wanted children and spend a lot of time w nieces and nephews.  I just haven't met the right person yet but after this I really realized time was running out for a lot of reasons.  I knew eventually everything would probably be removed but I had so hoped I would have at least a few years.  I have been determined in last 9 month to focus more on my personal life.  In the meantime in January 2014 I decided to try and have eggs frozen w doctor's approval.  3 survived the process for which again I am grateful even though I had hoped I never would have to use.  I have had 3 month checks up every August w oncologist and I am on the pill.  At March 3rd check up everything seemed fine.  All my blood tests - CA 125 - and every other marker have always been negative, even when I had cancer 1st time so I really don't have a lot of faith in those.  At the end of March I got my period and right after I finished my abdomen become extremely distended.  I knew something was wrong.  I had ultrasound last week and they found a complex 8.3 x 6.5 x 3.9 cm mass on remaining ovary.  It obviously grew extremely fast in just a few months if not weeks because doc felt nothing on March erd.  He confirmed this week I will have to have another laparotomy in the next month to remove.  I am devastated.  He said “well, you had eggs frozen right?” but that's not the same.  There is no guarantee on those.  He knows my feelings that I want the ovary to be saved if at all possible but I can tell that the chances of that happening is very slim.  I can't believe I have lost my chance to have children.  And it is so hard when people discount those feelings by saying "you can adopt, you can do this, you have eggs, it's not a big deal."  There is nothing wrong with any of those methods or choices.  But it is not what I had wanted.  Has anyone out there had a mass this big and was your ovary able to be saved?   Thank you for your time.