My grilfriend recently broke up with me and I am concerned that she has BPD.  We were in a Long Distant Relationship and it was very tough on her. She wanted me around more often than I could be and always told me that she felt so lonely. She was able to find some close girl friends, but then after some time she lost them because she couldn't stand them and saw no good about them. And has moved on to new friends, that don't take attention away from her in her friend circle.  Some days she was very down and would call me and made me drive the distnace to see her. She even cut herself from time to time along her arm. It broke my heart to see her so upset. But other days things couldn'tbe going better and she would be real excited for what was to come.  
 When we broke up about a week ago I had just seen her the weekend before. Everythig seemed great and we were both happy. She was never abusive to me or to anyone else that I knew of. We really did have a good relationship when we were together but when we were apart there were a lot of tears and questions as to why I wasn't there with her. From time to time she brought up scenerios of "when (I leave her), please don't do it like this" SHe always said it in a joking manner so I never took it really serious. There was one time when she had an anger fit that I know of and saw but besides that I never saw any fits of rage. She never saw herself for the beautiful smart girl she is and put a lot of blame on her. And even when she would accomplish something, she didn't feel that it was good enough. Many of times this past two weeks shes been looking at some of her firends and finding problems in them and seeing how she can help them. SHe tried breaking off the relationship two times before but only for a few moments and then couldn't go through with it.  When this one did end, she put most of the blame on the distance and said she felt we had grown apart and that she was spent. It ended on a good note, but even when I said I'd move to be with her, she said no, and said shes sorry for letting me down that she can't handle the distance. She is only 21 yrs old.  Her school break is next week and instead of just taking it low, she is taking off to sweden to see her best friend.
 I care about her so much. How can I help her?