What am I supposto do??? I feel like crap not even 5 minutes ago I was sitting in my room thinking I want to live but there's no joy left 
actualy here's what I wrote in my journal 
 - I don't want to die but the thing is there isent any joy left in my life for me! And I know everyone would say just hold on and that suicide is a permenent solution for a temperary problem but I've waited and it's only getting worse!!! I want to live I want to wait for some joy to come around but the thing is I'll be waiting forever because it ain't comming. Everytime I think "finaly some joy" somthing ruins it usualy me because I'm so dumb and annoying and not to mention embaressing! I don't know why people put up with me! I'm so stupid. I wouldent blame them if they just snaped on me one day and never talked to me again. It would be my falt and I would deserve it! I keep telling myself joy will come one day and I will make into the music bussiness and that is joy to look forward to but as much as I think I'm a good singer I guess I'm not because when ever I sing people tell me to shut that I suck! I don't really have anything to live for anymore. The only thing that has been keeping me alive are people like Karen Jeff PJ and Jonathan! God really works threw them. If I dident have them in my life I'm not sure if I would be here today cuz they are always the ones I think of when I want to end it all. Just thinking of them makes me think twice about it. I wish I could see them everyday at least one of them everyday!!! But I can't =( and ya a few people have told me I have a beautiful voice but I hear many more people way more often tell me to shut up that I suck. Singing is the one thing that I feel I'm good at but I'm starting dout that I'm even good at that!!! What do I even have to live for anymore??? I want to sing so I can help people and be a role model and cuz I know people can relate lyrics and lyrics can really help people threw hard times but what am I'm kidding! I can't help people. I only things worse! I guess it's just better off I don't. But still I'm stubbern and will continue to try and sing and hopfuly make it into the music bussiness one day. Hopfuly I don't make to many things worse!!!! 
 And I will probably sit here and add continue thinking about it. So I asked my Mum if I could go for a walk cuz I want to go see Jonathan (the guy I mentioned in my journal) so I can distract myself and at least try to have a good time but my Mum won't let go for a walk so I'm stuck in room thinking about how I'll never see joy again!!!!  What am I supposto do???