I have been married for 12yrs and have 2 kids. My husband is very funny and the star of all parties; makes me laugh all the time. but when angry he is unable to control his temper and starts cursing calling names and even hit me. I am not perfect either when it comes to chores. I am not good cleaning person and make mess in the kitchen and my closet and I get late when we have to go somewhere. These are things he told me many times to improve upon and I have been trying my best; but I still make careless mistakes.Its like he ignores 2-3 times but if it happens again he becomes aggressive. When I make a mistake like  yesterday I forgot to close the garage door and forgot to switch on the light when my son was watching TV; he looses his cool and starts to call me names and cusses me because I compromised on safety and health (eyes) of my kid. I also reacted and yelled at him for reacting that way. My 10 yr daughter started crying and my husband came rushing towards me as if to hit me. She stopped him and kept yelling and crying. I was really sad and worried about what she goes thru seeing me hit and cursed like this. She and I can't call 911 for help coz he is the only earning member and i can't either work due to immigrant visa; Also he is not like that all the time. when it comes to kids he is a good father never hurts them n' loves them a lot. He is a perfectionist. Earlier i used to take the beating, cry for a little while. Then I started to hit him back so that he would not hit me in front of my kids. but didn't work for long. Now my daughter tries to come in middle, cries and argues with him to avoid hitting me. afterwords he becomes fine and starts behaving loving and tells me isorry and asks me to say sorry and also tells me if hadn't done that he would not have reacted that way. I am worried for my daughter. she told me that its too much for her and she has try to save me and loves dad too. I have never told my family or friends about this nor do I want to involve law department. I just wanted to be able to tell somebody about this that's all. what to do?