Hello to everyone!
  I know you all have your own worries and I've struggle with whether to post this or not while reading through your stories.
 But I'm not getting any help and after 3 months and quite frankly, I'm at my wits end.
 In november of 14 (three months ago) I started to get really bad upper left abdominal pain, just below (not behind) the rib cage and pain along my left side as well. Never on the right side of me.
 I became (and continue to be) incredibly obnoxiously gassy my husband says I've lost my classiness. My stomach is noisier than my outdated dishwasher and I have light (almost alien like gold) very soft stools all day every day. I also have new reflux (never had that before). No appetite loss and very little weight loss.
   My pancreatic enzymes have been low (lipase is significantly below low cutoff of 15 at 7 on the first test and 11 on the next test)
My liver enzymes are all proper, a little too low in some areas.
I've had a contrast CT scan two weeks after pain onset which didn't even mention my pancreas except to say "unremarkable" - no measurements, etc.
I've had a HIDA scan which shows gallbladder functioning at 86% and no stones
I've had a gallbladder ultrasound which shows mild sludge - only the head of the pancreas was visualized during this and is unremarkable.
I've had a EGD which shows mild reactive gastritis, no hpylori, no celiac disease etc.
I've had a pancreas elastase fecal test which shows normal.
I've had Stool tests for parasites and they are negative.
  I'm 35, female, with autoimmune diseases of the heart and thyroid.
   For three solid months I can't get away from the restroom and have missed work which is something I have never ever been prone to. The pain and the digestive upset is not normal for me and unfortunately, when you plug in those symptoms you get pancreatic troubles. 
   It took 30 doctors to diagnose my congestive heart failure when I was 15 so suffice to say I have a hard time trusting medical professionals from this - I told them multiple times it was my heart and they needed to further evaluate.
   When reading forums or researching, no one ever says what their symptoms were. But Google seems to think it's on to something. I hate Google, by the way - it's so bad for me.
  I'm just wondering where I should stand up for myself and where I should back down. I dont want to be a nuissance, but I don't feel good. If you had to fight for your diagnosis, or you see something I'm missing, I'd value your input and be forever in your debt because clearly, you have better things to do.
   Thank you!