I don't know where to start. My mother didn't want children, but she ended up having 2, ten years apart. I can remember when i was 6 and my brother would take beatings for me. He turned to drugs to get away from her, to try to forget, and left me there alone with her when I was 8. She tortured me. I can remember thinking please hit me and shut up, she would say some of the meanest things and I would rather her hit me than say another thing about how ugly i was, how I was the problem, how it was my fault for everything, how i was stupid, useless, pathetic, and the list goes on... I know I am not ugly, I won every pageant there was to win for her. I made straight A's in school. I never went out with my friends. I always did everything the way I thought she wanted... perfect. Still she hated me, hit me, abused me. All i wanted was for her to say  I'm proud of you baby. Anyways, she kicked me out of the house when I was 17 and my boyfriend took me in (and he was only 20). He put me through my senior year of highschool, watched me graduate, and is now putting me through college. I owe alot to him. Recently I started talking to my mother again, after not speaking to her for 3 years. She is still the most hateful, manipulative, fake, in-sensitive ***** (pardon my language) that i have ever met. But I try i really do try to get along with her, I ignore her comments, and her 'i'm always right attitude' and I ignore her comments about my boyfriend, now fiance. I have been engaged to him for 3 of the 4 years I have been living with him. We are going to get married September 10, 2010. It almost hurt my feelings that I was there to try on wedding dresses all by myself and other women had their moms with them. I want my mother to be there with me, for me, support me. I hate it and I would really like to get physical with her when she downs my fiance and me after all he has done for me, but I know if I did, I would be no better than her. So how do I tell my mother that I am getting married in just a few months without risking her going psycho on me or my fiance. Or should I even tell her at all? I mean she is my mom, and for some reason I want her there?.... What do I do?????