I apologize if this is long, I'm just really confused right now.  I've been married to my husband for over 14years, known each other for over 16 yrs.  We meet in the military, in which he's still in.  We have 3 kids and he has raised my oldest two (now, daughter 21 years and oldest son 17 years) since they were 4 yr and 7mos old. He's the only Dad they really ever known.  We also have a 10 year old son together.  We aren't perfect parents, but we try to do our best.  
 When, I was in the military my 1yr old son (now, 17yrs) had gotten sick, he was running a fever, throwing up for like 2wks.  So, i was going back inforth to the military doctors.  The doctors had no clue what was wrong with my baby.  I was starting to get up set cause they was perscribing him all kinds of meds and couldn't give me no diagnois for his sickness.   As I told you, I was in the military and I was dating my husband at this time, well, I had duty, the next day which required me to go to work in the morning and return home after working hours on the next day.  Well, a day after me taking my son to the doctor, i had duty and my boyfriend (husband now) was home with the kids, he had called me around midnight saying he had check on the kids and that my son was asleep, but he sounding funny and breathing funny.  So, we decided that he was going to take him to the hospital and I'll meet him there.  When I got there a few hours later the doctor, told me that they needed my to signature, cause my son needed to have emergency surgery to his abdomin. So, of course I signed and was asking the staff and my boyfriend what was going on. My boyfriend didn't know and the nurses were acting stand offish. They next thing I know the Social Worker is there asking me where was I and they said my boyfriend punch my son in the stomach, but he denieding it and they will be taking my kids and moving them with my mom and that she will see us in court. Lie deteter was even done, which came back conclusive.  It went on for months, we got a lawyer paid he $2000 and he demand more which we didn't have for him to continue.  So, was assigned a public defender, who seem pretty good. She told us that there is no edivence of abuse, but they still going to want my boyfriend to plead guilty, which we didn't want him to do, we wanted to go to Jury court, but the defender stated it's up to us but she advise up to plead guility, (also had to do parent classes, boyfriend had to do angremanagement counseling) and then after a few months it will down to lesser charge and after so many years he can have it expunged off record. Eventually, all that was done and my kids move back home he was 2 1/2 old and it seem okay. 
 Now, my daughter and son has been mad at us lately and now they're saying that my husband hit him in the stomach and cause the scar on his stomach and he has been mad at us for years and that why he's been walking around angry.... And now, my husband and I hurt and don't know what to do.   Oh yeah, my kids had told my sister recently and now my sister wants to take it to a talk show, so they give my husband a lie detector on national t.v.
 Please help me!!!!