I am getting divorced after 40 years. This should be the time of our lives when we should be enjoying the fruits of our labor and instead, he is choosing to do it without me. He suddenly stopped talking to me 4 yrs ago and I have been waiting for him to wake up to what he would be losing but he hasn't. He made "best friends" with another woman as the same time he stopped talking to me and totally immersed himself in her life.She was newly widowed and he stepped in and took charge of her life and helping her. He secretly went to key west with her in her RV and also was gone for 2 months at an RV repair camp with her. I had no idea where he was. He spoke not a word to me for 3 1/2 years. After 1 year, I tried to speak to him directly, since emails had not worked and that is when I found out about the "friend" . I begged him to stay away from her because he had emotionally betrayed me...it was like I was being gutted. After hours of trying to make him see what he had done to me, and pleading with him to tell her he could no longer be involved with her, he told me he couldn't do that to her! I felt like my heart was ripped out. He couldn't do that to her but he could do all this too me! He actually told a marriage counselor that he went to only one time with me, that he had a new life and I was no longer part of it! Eventually, after several violent episodes including choking me when I found him cutting her lawn, and another final straw episode when he broke the hd tv, my cell phone, ripped the lap top in half, took all the landlines out of the house, hid my car for 3 weeks and disconnected the remaining tvs...as well as kicking in the bathroom door where I was hiding during his rampage that left me black and blue, I finally filed for divorce. He has tried to reconcile but I keep finding out that he is still seeing his friend despite promising as of the filing, that he will not see her. The lies never end...he asks other women to meet him for drinks and do other things with him, all secretly, but does little with me. When I have found out and confronted him, he says I make a big deal out of nothing cause they are just friends. Sometimes he will take me to breakfast on a weekend but I know he is going to ditch me later in the day no matter what I say to get him to stay and spend the time with me. I always know that it is because he has plans with someone else, but he lies and says he is just going for a motorcycle ride. I could go on but I am sure you get what I am saying. I can't figure how he could risk his marriage like this. I think he has become so entitled, that he thinks he can sweet talk me into thinking everything is fine, and still sneak around behind my back. I always find out what he is up to. My heart is broken, but I cannot live like this. He actually told his attorney that I am a good wife and he doesn't want a divorce!!  But you can't be with someone who doesn't treat you like you are the most important person in their life and make doesn't consider how their actions and decisions will affect you. He took vows with me, not other women he calls friends! I will not come last on the list to his many friends and the activities he chooses to leave me out of. I am worth more than that. I know that relationships can't be one sided despite the length of time you have been together. I want to keep my head high but I see my whole life going down the drain. He may regret his decisions but I cannot waste my life hoping he comes to his senses. I know we are all responsible for our ultimate happiness but this is ripping me apart and even if he did come to his senses, I don't think I could ever trust him again and my anger that he could have done this to us would never go away. If you drop a plate and it breaks in half, you can glue it and it will still look like a plate, but my husband has shattered that plate into a billion pieces and I see no way to put us back together.  My heart is broken...I don't know if I will ever be alright again...any advise would help...