Hi.  I wrote before the end of August under the relationship forum about dating someone (which ended) who is on call 24/7 and has guardianship of a 13 yo boy, although he is no blood relation, a step-grandfather, and for five years he has not been providing a stable homelife for this child in that he gets calls and can be gone from 2 to 12 hours at a stretch, overnight at times. All I can say is there has been so much neglect over the years and it is sad.
 Well, this teen and I have been going swimming, mini golf at fun center, etc., fishing at lakes and at the ocean, beach trips.  Labor Day Weekend he opned up to me and said he was being physically abused by this man.  Recently had been struck with a fist to the head and when he fell landed on a rail and injuried his eye.  Thank God I had a photo I took of him days after the incident.  He originally told me it was a skateboard injury.  On Tuesday following the long weekend I contacted the school district and the principal of the middle school sat him down and he opened right up to her about abuse and neglect.  Writing this brings tears and goosebumps, sadness for his situation.  I knew he was in a bad home w/o proper supervision and care.  Just being in their house was enough to verify my concerns.  So what happened was the school is mandated by law to report the abuse to the authorities.  I was noted on the report as the one who advised them first of the situation.  
 By the way, when the man becomes angry has been slamming him up against walls, pinching, pulling hair, slapping.  Basically acting like a bully.  The boy told me he wants to run away. He said the man takes work out on him.  He yelled so many times at his mother (who lives out of state) when she called that she doesn't any more.  He doesn't even know her last name.  He's told me that he has been locked out of the house before.  When the man wants to go out on dates he takes him to his uncle/uncle's house (who are under age 30 and have no children) but they are out at the bar weekend nights and have to be given a ride home since they are too drunk to drive or walk home and could be cited.  I could go on and on.
 Now here is the problem.
 He is a tow truck driver and manager of the local tow company who handles big rigs and semis being hauled off the freeways and highways and this is a dangerous job that involves the CHP when accidents occur and at weigh stations for the trucks that are over capacity.  The local officers and sheriffs know him personally and work with him.  There is no local police department and so the sheriffs are investigating things.  It is a small town and let me tell you, they protect their own.  I truly believe this man is going to get off the hook for battery/child abuse.  A social worker is also investigating the situation but I too have my doubts with that as he's been skating by with no oversight for five years and this county is more lax than others, in my opinion, of what is acceptable behavior. 
 So with that said, has anyone encountered a situation where someone was let off and not charged when the child has admitted to the abuse?  Does anyone have any comments on the crisis I am going through right now?
 It has only been one week and I am stressing somewhat, thinking of so many things I know to be wrong with what has and could possibly go wrong.  I carry pepper spray around as I do not know if this person would retaliate, although unlikely since that would mean more charges, etc.  
 Lastly, I have informed the sheriffs involved that if he is not charged I am going to take this to the next level, that he has gotten off for moving traffic violations in the past due to his position and I anticipate them overlooking this too and just giving a warning.  Not good for the child going forward.  Ughh!