Hello. I'm not sure if this is the correct forum to ask this in, but here goes...
How do I know if my husband has a paranoid personality disorder and how do I deal with it? We have been married for over 20 years and he has consistently had what I think of as paranoid thoughts/ obsessive worrying about things in varying degrees. He has always had a suspicious, critical side where he believes he has been/is being singled out and persecuted for different things or someone (usually me) is conspiring against him. He will hear me say something benign or will find a "fact" and twist it around by taking a fragment of what I've said (or someone else has said) and builds his own negative belief around it. Then he has a ranting screaming fit about it that lasts sometimes for several days. This is followed by a silent  period where he is still mad but eventually begins to talk about whatever is bothering him. Sort of. He always believes he's right, even with presented with contrary evidence. Most of the time he accuses me of being the source of the problem. He has accused me of cheating (I have not) and did not apologize when the "fact" he had proved a misunderstanding, he has attempted to isolate me from family because he is afraid I'll tell them something about us or him that can be used against him, and he fixates on what he perceives other people might be thinking about him -even if he rarely (or ever) interacts with them. I've been telling myself for years that this worry about what others think comes from his being raised in a strict religious setting (cultish) where it tightly controlled his social circle and banned a person if they did something that was disapproved of.  
Now I wonder. When he gets in his ranting state, there is no reasoning with him and there is no breaking through it to get him to listen. I'm exhausted and wondering if I can deal with this the rest of our living years. I stayed by his side through horrible depressive periods where I did everything I could to keep him from committing suicide, have been his advocate to doctors when they were blowing him off, and I am still here willing to help, but now he's got me second-guessing myself. He thinks I told my sister (we confide many things to each other) something very personal about him. (This was from 2 years ago.) I don't recall ever doing so, and when I asked her, she says he was the one who shared the info. He is convinced that she has told her husband about him and that her husband (or my sister) has leaked this "gossip" out to their friends and my family. My memory isn't the greatest, but I am so sure I didn't say what I'm accused of. It has been a week and he is convinced I have betrayed his trust and snaps at me every time I try to convince him otherwise. I'm at my wits end as I don't think he's going to let this one go. I do talk a lot, but I don't spread harmful gossip like he believes. Anyone else deal with stuff like this? ~MM