Ok so i couldn't really pinpoint this on one thing cause it involves lots of things. Ok so i am  fifteen year old girl. in tenth grade but ever since i was younger i have hated myself in many aspects. i grew up in an abusive home but i had 2 older sisters and like 2 younger but i was always the one geting blamed for everything. 3 years ago i went to the police about being abuse mentally and physically and ever since then it seems like everyone hates me even more. lasy july after my birthday i moved into my grandmas house so i am finally out of my house but i miss my siblings dearly now i have 4 sisters and a brother. but last year when i was fourteen(october fourth, 2006) i was raped under a bridge (my mom had told me earlier i was the reason she had a miscarrige) so i just needed to be alone so i ran away from my house for awhile. I had cut my wrists with a peice of metal i found under the bridge then two guys came up to me and asked if i wanted a beer. i said no.. then they started walking at me and i was trying to move and get up but i jut couldnt. then when i got back home finally aftre being gone about 8 hours..it was about 11 pm. life just always seems to take the wrong path. last may i also got into pot and drinking. i have since quit. the ways i have always (since 6th grade) to realive stress were cutting my self then around aprilish last year i took up smoking it helped with the cutting thing..until like a month ago i got a bf who said i will dump u if u continue to smke. i still do but i just dont tell him about it. but i gave myself an eraser burn. My uncle died in august in the war. and since then my parents and grandparents have been harder on me telling me i have to make the first step. i was talking to my gpa one day and he was like what are u going to change i said i will not smoke or do anything that can hurt me in the long run nd he told me ive made the first step. now i have to make the second step. i have no idea what that is though. how can i talk to somebody like a therapist about all off this stuff.. in my life i trust like nobody. except like complete strangers i know i will never ever meet and if i do they will not know its me hiding behind this faulty screen name.