Thank you in advance for your time.  Really.  I don't feel like I have the energy to offer a lot of boring details, but if more merits at another time I will...
 My wonderful husband and I have been married for a three years.  His adult daughter is in business with him and they spend a lot of time gone working together during the day.  Her cows are pastured at our home where she had them before we were married so she is here at our home at least twice a day.
 I have tried to be nothing but kind and helpful to her... when asked... yet offering to help when it appeared to me her hands are full.  And I've only offered because I really wanted to.  From the beginning, I have been happily firm with she and her other adult siblings I would only like to be a friend.
 DIL has become increasingly very crass, rude, disrespectful and abrasive in her interaction to me...  in front of her dad who has, in general, reportedly talked to her about her generally crabby disposition.  She is increasingly monopolizing his face time and his phone time.  She speaks only to her dad when we are together with her, and does not acknowledge I'm there.  She's been verbally disrespectful to me in our home with comments directed to me, 'Let's move this along...' when we were having a holiday dinner, to her coming to our home to talk to her dad and when I turned on the morning news in the kitchen she angrily turned around and said, 'Does that have to be so loud?... not acknowledging I was trying to turn the volume down at that moment.  When my husband didn't appreciate my help on a job site one day, she chimed in on the conversation my husband chose to have with me in front of her and said, 'And if you can't listen, then maybe you should go home.'
 I've tried on several occasions to speak my truth with my husband/her father about how I feel, but I'm met with:  'That's the way she is.  Why are you trying to change her?  If I say anything to her, she won't let us see our grandchildren.  Maybe you should think about what it'll be like when she asks me to come over to see them or take care of them, but not you.'  My husband admitted to a sixth sense I've had that he has talked to her about disagreements we've had to which he responded with, 'I had to talk to someone.'
 I walk on eggshells daily, knowing she'll be on our dooryard with her rude, crabby, ignoring disposition.  I feel like I'm living in a box.  I'm not used to being treated so rudely and I feel like there is no hope.  My guts ache and I don't know what I've done wrong.
 I sincerely ask for your input and expertise.  My husband loves me to pieces, and I love him the same.  If anything, at least I've found a place to leave the mess I'm in.
 Peace.