I was married years ago.  He controlled everything, money moved me away from family and friends. Bought a stitch shift car I couldn't drive so if I wanted to go anywhere it was only if he wanted to take me. He monitored my calls to my family, listening in on conversations and telling me when my phone call was finished. After my 3rd child was born I headed into a major depressive episode. My bady was 18 months, the two were 3 and 6. I was in and out of hospitals. My physc dr asked me where will you be in 10 years if you stay in his marriage. I had no answer but he did. He said if I didn't get out I would end up killing myself. I ended that marriage and raised 3 young children (1with ADHD). 8 years ago I met my current spouse. He had no kids, never been married but was in a long term relationship. She cheated on him and it ended. 4 years ago we moved in together and got married a yer ago. We had issues with my middle daughter which causes friction. To this day he tells me how much he hates her. This last year he has been really angry ay me because my ex is slipping behind in child support to the tune of $5000 in arrears. Ine gone through family responsibility last year but it is not getting better. Apparently this is my fault. Especially since the ex this year alone has been to Mexico and France and I don't have enough money to feed 3 very hungry teenagers.  When my dh yells at me (no hitting) I feel like I am being punched in the gut.  I am so scared of disappointing him or making him mad. I tiptoe around conversations and I hate feeling like I have watch everything that I say. 2 weeks ago he was making chili for a party and he asked me to watch it while was at work. I stirred it often and when it got sticky on the bottom I took it off the stove.  Went to bed as I had to get up at six am.  At 1:00 am he barges into the bedroom and demanded to know what halo opened. I got out of bed and went to the kitchen. There wew burnt bits in the chili and now he had to throw it all away, a waste of money and time. He made me stay up till 2:30 am picking out the burnt bits and complaining the whole time. We took the chili to the party and people raved about it. But to mr, that chili was ruined to to his anger.  Next night he blew up at me again for another trivial slight he perceived. I broke down crying told him I can't live like this and then he was all lovey dovy, how much he needed me, loved mr yada yada.  He apologized and said he had no idea why he so angry. Promised it wouldn't happen again. Well 2 days letter home from the party (he was drunk) he started telling me about other people don't let their exes in their houses and all I sais was we would talk about it tomorrow. Well that was the start e
Of another huge blowout, tears and yelling. My prepress ion is back full fold. I am getting help but feel pretty useless having let myself get involved in this type of relationship. I can't sleep because 3hours ago I suggested changing the family room around which calls for moving the tv which is fastened to the wall. He walked out of the room and went to the bar. I am just sick. I know no one can take advantage of you unless you let them but with my depression I cannot find any strength and just want to go to sleep and never wake up. No more panic attackers, no more worthless feeling or feelings of failure. Or am I just making a mountain out of a molehill?  It's hard when he complains about my kids and how he hates my middle daughter. I don't know what to do