I met someone and I had a short relation with him.He told me that he is alone and break up with his gf. After a while I found out that he was lieing and still in a relation with her, never broke up.I broke up with him, he denied fisrt ,after he admited but told me they are not happy together and he will break up with her so we can be together.I found out who she was and got in contact with her.We spoke,me and her, put together all the facts and do some research about his life. Seems that this man had a double life, he told us both so many lies, we dont even know the truth. He lied about his family, I know his mother is alive, her gf know that she is dead. Anyway we found out also that he always flirt, chat and sleep with every women he can.This girl was in a relation with him for 2 years and she dosnt know his friends,he always kept her far from his personal life. He knows his "aunt" but now we know that she is his mother not aunt.
He lies about everything, his life, family, relations, big ans serious lies. We found out also that he was in the same time with 3 girls, for more than 2 years, and he took advantage off all, taking money from girls. But even if he had serious relation, he never stopped having sex with other women. He is addicted to sex cause he can not stop doing this.
The problem is me and his gf want to do something to stop him, he is aggresive, he is lieing and take advantage of women. She confront him with the truth but he can not stop pretending and playing. He try to manipulate us, by posting in a victim.He blame me saying I try to break his relation with this girl and he says he loves her. But to give you an example, he was talking with us both online  saying he is sorry and so on and in the same time, he was online with another girl for virtual sex. He must be crazy...
His gf thx me for saving her life, she wanted to get marry with this man, but now our only concern is what we can do to stop him. He is dangerous and we need to do something cause he is just ruin other pple lifes.
 thank you and any advice is welcome