I have lived in a hellish nightmare for going on two years now after a bad experience with LSD. A full blown panic attack/anxiety was what I came out of the drug trip with, and since then I have dealt with feelings of paranoia, intrusive thoughts, and severe anxiety.
 In December of 2009 I was prescribed Prozac and took it for about 6 months. However, for the first time ever, I started to have these strange obsessions with killing myselg, particularly from heights. I never really feared heights, up until one moment where I was standing on the ledge of a building and was gripped with the morbid reality that I could easily jump if I wanted to. I guess that shook me to my core, and ever since I have had a strangely crippling fear of heights. And now, especially in times of high stress and anxiety, I find myself not just fearing suicide, but sometimes even playing tricks on my mind that it would be a good idea. 
 My thoughts seem to always be self-defeating, and no matter how much I combat them, I go in circles and tell myself reasons why my fears are legitimate. In the case of committing suicide, I tell myself a myriad of reasons why I can or should or will do it. It also seems to be largely based on a fear that I will lose control, or that reality will break down before me (Perhaps this is trauma as a result of my reality crushing experience with LSD). 
 I do have times where I am happy and hopeful, and this usually is in the day time. But every single night, I go into this dark world of fear, paranoia, and begin to fill my head with doom scenarios and that everything will turn unreal around me.
 I have been in and out of Psychiatrist's offices, therapists offices, and even spent almost a week in the Mental Hospital after a panic attack that felt unreal and everything seemed to be fake and I started questioning reality. Because my therapist was unsure if I would maybe act on my intrusive suicidal thoughts, she suggested I go to the hospital; I gladly agreed.
 Does anyone have any advice? I feel trapped and am living in the constant overwhelming fear that nothing will get better, that I am going to go insane or that nothing is real and everything is an illusion, or that I will some day lose control and act out on my strong impulsive thoughts to want to commit suicide. And I don't want to do that, hence why I am writing here.