I just turned 16 and i recieved amazing gifts and spent time around my amazing family. but still i just wanted to cry everytime i saw someone esle happy. and its not because i am just that bitchy. its because i know i will never ever be able to feel like that. i have dealt with depression almost my entire life and never knew it. my father used to just yell at me and tell me that i was just making up excuses so i didnt have to do anything and my mom just said to stop complaining and act normal for once. this has hurt me my entire life. i have been through treatment and been put on drugs and no matter what nothing seems to help. i dont know how to be a teenager. and right now i am dealing with this huge self esteem thing where i dont feel happy when im alone because i feel like im such a loser that even if i wanted to i couldnt get anybody to hang out with me and when im with people i want nothing to do with being out. its a loose loose situation. my parents arent helping. my mother wants nothing to do with giving me any kind of freedom what so ever and i just cant help but get extremely pissed off and freeze up everytime she finds some completely rediculous and unrelated excuse for why i cant do something. even when im happy im not happy. and i can never make up my mind. i always want what i cant have but i dont ever want to be like that. i cant control what i feel and what i do anymore its like i have some kind of other soul inside me ruining the life i didnt have anyways. just making it worse. i dont want to go back to treatment. its the last thing i would ever want. but how do i feel confident and happy when the people i want to be around more than anything know nothing of my existence and even if they did i would have no idea how to behave around people since i am so used to being alone by choice. its simply easier. but not anymore when my mom has her eye on me 24/7 and i cant just cry when i want to b/c somebody will be up my *** about it and i dont have a reason to give them.