Hi, not really sure if this is the right place, but after reading some of the other comments it looks a good a place as any.
 Im 30 years old, single, and have no memory of sexual abuse as a child, although the feeling keeps haunting me, i have several issues that plague me, i have memories of experimenting with a female friend at 14/15, she was abused by a friends dad two years before this.  I also have a memory of being around 15 close to my home and being followed with a friend by two men in a car, i can remember running away and hiding in several placed, and just me hiding in a road close to my house and can remember the fear and the car driving past the end of the road, but no other memory of this.
 Ive never really had a close relationship with my parents, no hugging or kissing or any form of affection shown or discussed, Im not able to let anyone get close to me, i put up brickwalls and hide things and parts of myself from people and shut down pushing them away and run at any signs of closeness. I have an enormous fear in public, and feel i am only able to truly be myself either on the phone when people cant see me or when drinking alcohol.
  i jump in and out of depression, isolating myself, and have a constant need to escape everything.  
 In relationships i have no desire for sex and can quite hapily live without it, oral sex is a major problem and cant even contemplate the idea, on occasions when i have it results in me totally tensing, avoiding the situation at all costs, and feeling very out of control, anything that causes me to feel out of control is an issue.  penetration hurts, and i am never able t allow myself to feel and enjoy, instead i go through the motions i believe i should be experiencing but never allow myself to relax and enjoy it.  I find no arrousal from sex and kind of switch off.  For years i would wait up to 6/8 months before engaging in a sexual relationsip with boyfriends and explained this as a previous rape experience, the first time i explained this it rolled off my toungue before i even realised i had said it, with quite a detailed report, which i have no recollection of, and unaware where i could have conjured this lie from on the spot, but i can retell it accurately with no hesitation
 I have frequent dreams about kidnapping situations and sex which although is consented has arisen from these situations.
 I have two children, by ceserian, and to this day have never had a smear test or been for an examination after chidbirth, i have been approached on occasion and each time admitted i was scared and needed time to pluck up the courage and would book an appt, never been able to, its not so much fear, but also humiliation and embarasement.
 Can someone tell me if these things are normal or if there may be some underlaying cause that i need to seek help for.