Hi, I have been dealing with some issues for the past two years. I'm a 14 year old male and nothing traumatic has happened in these past years and I wondering if i might be schizophrenic. I've been diagnosed with bipolar, ODD, and depression since last year. But lately people have been extra worried about me. I really dont see anything wrong with me. I've been doing these things since I was a 5 but no one said anything then. Well, anyways, I've been talking in a British accent everywhere I go (just for the fun of it), people have been telling me that I dont make sense when I talk and I've been singing to the top of my lungs to every song I can think of (I really dont know why). I've suddenly started to hate my brother and be very self-centered. My child doctor thought it was just me beng smart and creative because I had a very high I.Q. So they just put me in gifted classes but I still think its something other than that, I become very obsessive with things.I've stopped cutting my hair and I go on eating binges and the binges last for weeks where I eat too much or where I dont eat enough. Im really paranoid and I always think someone is trying to do something to me all the time which is why I'm so mean and defensive. I've been very manipulative and I havent been going to school all year. I'm very touchy on too many subjects and I hate talking about things unless I'm going to be the only one talking. I wake up in the evenings and stay up till 7:00 in the morning. I act like i'm a different person usually because I'm bored and when I'm bored I think of crazy things. People have been telling me that I'm having diva-ish ways. I curse a lot for no reason and my head has been really swimmng lately. I take remron, abilify, and paxil but they just make me go to sleep. It seems that this has all happened at once. I'm really critical and talk about people in front of there face or behind theyre back. What is it ? Could it be hereditary since my younger sister is bipolar, has depression, ODD, and ADD and my father is a recovering alcoholic ? I really dont know whats going on. If you coud help I would really appreciate it. Ive also had 5 surgeries on my head in 3 years for headaches could that also be it ? I have no emotions or feelings towards anyone and I laugh at sad or bad things. Could this be schizophrenia or some kinda borderline personality disorder ?