Married for 7 years, known each other for 8, with 2 children.  
Things fell apart when his parents divorced after 30 odd years and a lifetime of secrets was revealed by the hurt parent.  It had a deep and lasting effect on my husband.  I asked him to go to therapy, and he would try it for a while, but I don't think he was ever honest with his therapist, or me for that matter. He tried meds, and they worked.  But again he decided he didn't really need them.  He has "omitted" financial information regularly. I would get confession emails at work telling me of a loan he had to take out or money he spent out of our savings for whatever reason. He kept doing it saying he had no choice.  I catch him in little lies all the time and he always has a story to go with it.  He behaves one way to my face and another way to others.  He left a FB conversation open with his step sister where he called me "darth vader" because I asked him to put up a baby gate.  I'm not innocent, I am impulsive, direct and stubborn.  I like things a certain way.  
I have no desire to be intimate with him, and have not been for years.  Yet he wants to stay.  He takes care of me, but then says things behind my back that don't match his behaviour.  My head is a mess.  I have told him I want to end it, but I am consumed with guilt.  The sense of failure is unbearable.  I don't want to disappoint my children.  
He is gone for work all of the time so we are used to him being away.  We sleep in separate rooms, and the kids seem to think it is perfectly normal.  We are friends.  He will be pursuing his 3rd career since we met.  My career takes a hit every time he does this, because of moves.  His next career will take about 4 years to accomplish when/if he gets accepted for it. Why is it so difficult for me to move forward. He has never done anything horrible to me, but enough to damage the relationship.  I don't want to hurt him, heck I don't want to hurt anyone, except for what I'm doing to myself I guess.
I just don't know what to do.