Somebody please help me.  My husband is a minister, he loves me more especially announcing it when infront of people.  I have always believed he loves me.  Before we got married I had two children, which is why I thought I would never get married again.  Until I met him and he proved to be too loving and caring even for my children.  The time we got married, everything changed.  He moved in to stay with us and the life was kind of good for a while, he started treating my children like his enemies that he is always looking for what to punish them for.  They are so loving and accepted him as their father because they are young with the oldest being 13 now and the other 7.  I fell preganant with his own child whom he loves to bits and can not hide it; while he can not even play or share jokes with the other yet he claims to love them and they even answer his surname because I was a single parent.  He is, most of his time in the house very very upset about something.  Even if he is from somewhere and he came happy, the moment he comes in he will look for faults on what the children did not do right dishes or wathching tv or poor marks at school etc.  THe TV which I bought befor he came was more for my children but now they can not even watch it, if he finds them watching TV he will ask them if they have studied and they know everything in their books?  or have they cleaned the yard or anything.  If he finds us happy sharing jokes and laughing he will be mad at them he quickly looks for something they did not do right and beats them or shouts to the top of his voice which is even naturally deep and when he raises it it scares anyone around including me.  when I tell him how unhappy I am about that he always end up being angry with me and say I am spoiling the kids.  We were very happy before he  came. He made me get into debts also by marrying him as I sponsored the wedding since he is a minister and told me that he does music programms and make money from them.  Up to now in almost two years of marriage he brings nothing home, I feed him, I pay for both our cars, food, I can nolonger be able to provide to my satisfaction for my children's needs and we are becoming poorer.  He wants to do business but I am the one who should sponsor him or else he has nothing do do and it all comes back to me. He stays at home and watch TV the whole day but be shouting at us, he can not talk smoothly, there is nothing we can discuss that does not lead to him upset no matter how softly I talk to him.  He can not work because he is a foreigner in this country and a minister and believes that God provides for our needs, which I do too but don't believe in lazyness.  If I talk to him about something I'm not happy about he will always have the best way to make me the guilty one and he is good with words.  I feel sorry for him because I am the only person helping him yet he treats me liek a piece of nothing.  I once thought of sending him away and thought of where would he go, he does not want to go to his country.  He has a child there and an ex but he says they parted long before he came here and I believed him.  I have heard him telling his ex to leave him alone one day she called and he reminded her that they are not together and she had no reason calling him so I believed him.
 The way he acts it is like there is something bothering him he is not sharing with us thus the anger outbursts everyday.  Everything around him upserts him, even a little conversation about something like what you saw on the road home, he will turn the whole thing to be a personal issue where he ends up blaming people how stupid they are or the government, etc.  I am tired of living an unhappy life with my children.  I know that in the church and infront of people we look like a happy couple because he is always praising me and evrybody knows how much I am lucky to have such a husband who loves me so much.  Please somebody help me on what should I do.  I am confused, I wish to have my old life back with happy children not children who are always scared even to eat an apple when he is around because they will be wasting food even though their mother is the one buying it.