So my step son is 5 yrs old, i have been apart of his life since right before his third birthday. And since the first day I met him, hes been apart of me. Shortly after his dad and I got married we decided to get a new apartment (closer to kobes moms place) that way we could all try to be a family. Its really important to me that he has an opportunity to have a relationship with his bio mom, as mine was never around and I always had a hard time not knowing her growing up, although I i love and appreciate my step mom a ton, just something about her not wanting me was rough.
 So anyways during that first year she only asked to see him 4 times, only once overnight (even though they have 50/50 custody) We decided to wait to tell her we had married as we assumed she would flip, but once we met and I explained to her that im not taking her place with kobe, then she was ok with the new relationship. she had her second child in october and we had our baby two weeks before her. So kobe came from being the only child to having two siblings in a very short time, also at that time his mom decided she wanted her half of the parenting time. obviously we wanted to make the transition easy and she had just moved back to where we had lived before getting married, so we decided it was best to move to be closer AGAIN. 
Lets just say its been rough. our relationship has been good with her although communication lacks sometimes, she feels like she doesnt need to tell us what goes on when she has kobe, because its her time, but for kobe he needs consistency. Now im not a bad mouther but this woman has ZERO patience and doesnt care about what she says or does with him. theres a HUGE list of stuff she has done in the last year but ill only give a few examples. 
1. she met and dated a man for 3 weeks, got engaged and moved into a house with him, got his name tattooed on her wrist, had kobe start calling him step-daddy and then they break up after only max of 4 months together.. now this "step-daddy is nowhere to be found" 
2.she goes out only on days she has him, has her dad watch him even though i offer time and time again to watch all the kids. 
3. she doesnt read, play outside, or really even talk to him ( hes very smart, loves to be active and reads at leat 3 hours a day at our house by choice) all of his favorite things, she will only let him play if its with his 6 yr old cousin and only puts on movies to entertain him
4. shes verbally abusive, constantly saying that things are his fault (ie: he didnt have time to put on his shoes before a practice so she made him walk in the rocks barefoot telling him its his fault for not putting them on), she leave him in the care and supervision of his 6yr old cousin ( to walk the block to friends house alone, at the parks ALONE together) 
5. Like i said there is SO many more things but this last was the last straw!
At kobes last t-ball game he had to sit out as he gets too agressive and kept tackling his team for the ball, so i had him sit out with his mom ( me and my husband are coaches and were out in the field and did not see this happen ourselves but the entire stands/parents saw this)
He went over to his Grandpa to get water out in the grass way in the outfield, she told him to come back and sit down, but he didnt want to so she went over grabbed his arm, and began pulling him. He didnt want to go so he layed down and she DRAGGED him on his side laying down by his arm for at least 100 ft in the gravel, he was kicking and crying and at least 3 people inlcuding her own dad told her to stop and all she said is he wasnt listening. 
this is not the first time we have thought that he was being abused there has always been some excuse or cover up for everything else ( that burn is from him touching the fries in the hot oil, but kobes wrist was burned not his fingers for example) nothing we could prove was not an accident until now
we decided to file for emergency protection order... got denied the immediate one but have a hearing for the expedited trial on MONDAY, if granted it could be in order for at least 90 days, we did put on there supervised visits would be okay and would want to work out a parenting plan but only after she gets whatever parenting classes or counsels she needs. we are not ok with kobe being hurt, and if that means he cant see her very often then so be it, his safety and well-being should come first. i guess this isnt much of a question , but more of a rant, we have to take kobe to his moms for this weekend before the trial, and stressing it.
What would you do in our situation? Do you feel the emergency order was necessary? any input would be nice.