Me & my hubby married 5 years ago we hv good understanding but my in laws always tried to create problems. I was studying when got married and living in hostel my hubby lives out of country. After completion i came back hone but lived with my on laws hardly six months due to their unjustified behavior i moved to my mother's home for some time and than to hostel. During all that time my relation with in laws was good. Myhubby visited us twice a year during that time we stayed with my in laws. My mother in law tried to keep me busy in kitchen so that we(me and hubby) cant spend time together. We were not evdn allowed to go outside for a walk without telling them in detail. That situation was really frustrating for me. I forgot to mention that i am a working women also. The situation worsen when i went abroad to spend sometime with hubby though my in laws were aware but my trip develop perhaps an insecurity and they criticized my hubby that he sponsered his wife not parents though that even didnt applied for visa. When i came back they continously tried to say megative things sbout me when my hubby cane in Dec they(his parents) asked him for second marriage he refused. He went back in Jan. I was in contact with my in laws we went for a family marriage but next day my mother in law asked my hubby on phone to avoide as I am a cunning woman and i will decieve him my hubby is a momma' boy and he was very angry he told me all this and i called my MIL and asked her why did she say so? During 5 years i never say even a word to her. And at time also i didnt misbehave i just asked. She created a drama along with whole family and asked hubby that i misbahed with her and she is ill and all that. Then they started pressurinzingy hunby to divorce me. They say negative things to create hatred in my hubby for me OMG i cant forget that time my mom and brother went to my inlaws appologized on my behalf though i didnt do anything wrong but they still saying thier son to leave me. I went to them said sorry many times but they were not willing in the meanwhile i managed to get visa and went to my hubby that created a mess amd my parent in laws neame furious and asked thier son that je insulted them by allowinge to visit him. They gave him continous stress when i came back the situation become more and more complicated. I cant say the words they were using like in the love of his wife he os hurtomg his mother and blah blah. Now my hubby came to see us his health is not good as he has a stress fracture the continous stress given by his family affect his physical health so badly . He is here for last 12 days. But didnt tell me. I didnt ve his phone number as he said he will not stay with his parents but in hotel. Yesterday i asked from his sister in law she told me he is here his health is not good. Today i called her she said my hubby and in laws dont want to have any contact with me so i should think about 2nd marriage she was the lady who played a major role in our marriage i said to her that i will nor break this relationship then i asked her i want to talk mu hubby. She made many excused but i said i have to talk she said ok hubby will call me shortly he did not call me but send a text that i am seriously ill i called on the number my father in law was there i said i want to meet my hubby want to see him he said no you cant the he asked my hubby to talk me he just told me about his health i said i want to see you he said no wait i will contact you when feel better. In the evening i called my brother in law he said dnt call again and again he is spending vacations with his family dnt disturb . He is not even tellinge wether my hubby is at home or in hospital i am very much worried i know my hubby wants me to be with him but he would never say this to his parents and they are punishing me as i went abroad to meet hubby with thier permission. Dont lnow what will they people do with me and hubby. I am affraid they will force hubby to divorce me. Now i have no contact with hubby he has his ingeography on saturday but i cant do anything oh God help me dnt lnow what to do???