my son is i believe and just about everybody who know,s him suffering from either a mental condition or personality disorder,which is making it imposible to lead or normal life ,he cant hold down a job and seems incapable of getting along with people for long.
one of the things that people notice most with him is that he talks a lot of rubbish and doesnt seem to notice that people arnt really engaging in the discusion and happily babbles rubbish notions.
he is twenty now but since the age of eight we have had a lot of problems with him always up the school nearly every other week suspended from school reguarly.
when he was six weeks old he had open heart surgery at bristol royal hospital as he was so young he could not go on a bypass machine so the operation was conducted by bringing the body temp down then stopping the heart for over an hour while he was worked on.
after this op he had six monthly then yearly checkups and made good progress ,until we noticed that we were having behavioural difficulties with him,we approuched the hospital for advise and were told it was not related i have since read several articles that make me differ in opinion.my main concern is getting diagnosis and treatment but i am finding this difficult as my doctor dosnt think he has mental issues.he says it could be a personality disorder and that this is uncureable which my be the case but he failed to mention it is treatable.
as of yet he has not made a diagnosis to act upon.
my son is now twenty and unfortuanatly living rough or homeless as a direct result of his antsocial behaviour and threats and damage caused around house.
he has threatened my wife with knifes he always carries weapons from knifes to hammers and has recently smashed my garden fence with a three foot scaffolding pole after threatening me with it.
he had the pole hidden under his bed why i dont know.
there was also an incident of a sexual nature which i dont wish to go into other than to say it was at the age thirteen and against one of his siblings he was seen by a phyciatrist but this was no help.
he is always talking about stabbing people and has threatened to petrol bomb our house on a number of occasions recently, when ever he gets in trouble he never admits fault he will always try to blame some one else or if thats not working then he will to try and bring up other peoples failings as if this justifies his actions ,basically no concience or idea or care of the effect of his actions.
there are times when he gets glassy eyed and there is no point talking to him as he just cant be spoken to this is usually in the midst of an argument.
he is a drug user weed and also drinks heavily he seems to have no ambition to improve his situation.
there is a lot more i could say on this subject but i think ive given the core informtion if there is any other info required please ask.
basically im at the end of my tether my wife is on  anti depressants as a result my son is living rough  and dosnt seem capable of changing this i cant allow him to live with us as i fear for the safety of my family but i also fear for his safety and well being please help me get an accurate diagnosis and treatment for my son so he can become a normal human .