I've been married for 11 years and finally feel like I have had enough. I am in a inter-cultural, inter-racial marriage but have the same religion. We have 2 lovely kids. Long story short my in-laws are always been indifferent and cold. My Arab MIL has in the past made deragatory comments againt me on my Indian background and culture. Long story short we can't understand each other and don't like each other. She has caused me sooo much pain. Despite 8 years of trying very very hard and trying to do everything I could to please her and change myself to be more arab. It has led to depression and post traumatic stress and suicidal thoughts before my kids were born. We've been to marriage therapy twice now
 It's now gotten to a point where I despise her so much - When I was 8 months pregnant I had to leave my house and go stay in a hotel for 2 weeks because I was afraid all the stress was going to put me in pre-term labor. I ended up getting PUPS that week in the hotel. My husband would come visit me for a short while in the evenings but would rush home for dinner to be with his mother - that hurt on how he abandoned me for his mother is still so raw.
  I can;t stand being in the same room as her now. It's espaicllay horrible with the kids  - they don't seem to like her and somehow that is my fault - per my husband and I magically 'brain wash' them. Although I do admit that I don't like them being around her - She is cold, rude, and indifferent. It really makes me wonder how someone so "religious" can be soooo mean and cold hearted. 
 My MIL has a Green Card now and comes to the US every 4-6 months. With the help of a marriage therapist we've been able to keep her visits limited to 2 weeks every trip. That ends up being 2/2.5 months a year. I've heard of many indian women who have had it far worse than me but HELP because I can't take it anymore. I am at a point where I am ready to walk away from marriage because my HUSBAND is a mama's boy - he can't and won't do anything about his mother. He feels sorry for her because she is a widow and was raised believing that "paradise lies at the feet of the mother" -  he would not do anything to ever "disrespect" her. Supposedly he's tried talking to her but she does not LISTEN or Change. 
  I feel like I am living in hell - it's not just the 2-4 weeks every visits - it's the months before that cause all the stress - the emotional pain and hurt it has caused.  I can't take it anymore - Divorce would mean I don't have to deal with her and help me be a better person and focus on myself and my kids.