I'm not a fan of labels, and I after years of battling anxiety, I know how dangerous self diagnosing can be.
First off, I'm an 18, nearly 19, year old guy, at Uni studying German.
I'm an extremely deep and emotional person - I find empathizing with others extremely easy and often find myself mirroring other people's emotions (the best way to explain this is like catching an emotional cold from someone). I could cry 3 or 4 times through a particularly emotional movie, out of happiness or sadness and I find this extremely hard to control. The same goes for real life too - I find my frustration, anger, sadness, happiness or anything really difficult to regulate. Whilst having this uncontrollable happiness may seem nice for the moment, it makes the drop a lot harder to go through.
Before I tell you about my situation, I just want to say thankyou for taking the time to read this post and any help you can offer me would be greatly appreciated - the reason I posted on the Borderline PD page is because I believe the symptoms I suffer belong to Borderline too - so I figured, even if I don't have this, someone might be able to help.
 - My mood is very labile - this is one thing the doctors don't seem to believe; I've told them on numerous occasions that it's disruptive but they haven't done anything - they seem more interested in giving me medication for depression and anxiety. I can be on a 'high' for a few days, really happy and productive, optimistic and stuff but easily frustrated and inpatient. The slightest thing will knock me down - criticism is something I CANNOT handle. 
- My views of people change frequently - one day they will be my best friend, I'll think so much of them - they could do one thing like not text me back, or I could mistake something they said as being an attack on me and they'll instantly be demonized by me - I usually don't voice this, rather ignore them or won't make an effort to talk to them or anything.
- The low moods tend to be very very low - I have a tendency to self harm during a low mood; I've never tried suicide before and rarely even think about it so self harm is as far as I go and this is in an attempt to make that horrible ache of sadness and frustration inside real so I can regulate it. I've suffered with depression before so I know what I'm talking about when I say these moods are like mini-episodes. Again, one thing could bring me straight back up to a feeling of elation - a compliment, high grade, sometimes even a good song?!
 I feel disgusting and dirty - a couple of things I did in my past that most people would shrug off as stupid make me feel sick about myself. The reality of these things is that they aren't serious at all - people do a lot worse every day and don't feel bad about it.
Especially in the lower mood spectrum I often feel like a liability - the number of times I've apologized to doctors for wasting their time! I suffer from panic disorder which means I suffer from panic attacks randomly and this in particular makes me feel like a liability to other people.
On the other hand, I'll have days where I look in the mirror and actually like what I see - I'll feel amazing and I can appreciate the little things in life. I can attend everything at Uni and do all my work, speak to new people and stuff. Unfortunately these moods don't last long - so you can imagine, I'm always anxious about when I'm gonna hit the bottom again.
 That's pretty much all I can think of now. Thanks in advance for your help and tips and for taking the time to read my post.
Jase.