I think my teenage daughter has some serious emotional issues that are beginning to show in her daily routine.  She has had an enormous amount of rejection throughout her life, her dad has never really been in her life and when he has, he has made her feel so bad about herself, worthless.  Her step dad left and only really has time for his natural born daughter, the only love he show her is through b-day and xmas gifts.  She has very little contact with any of the families and is constantly picked on and builled at school, she is very lonely.  Over the last couple of months she has made a little group of friends but she seems no happier, infact things seem to of got far worse.   
 The main reason as to why im so worried is due to the fact that she seems to be developing a form of OCD.  Today for example took her 5 hours to get ready, she woke at 9am and was only ready to leave the house a little after 2pm.  Every tiny aspect of her image needs to be exactly how she wants it or she wont leave the house for love or money.  She can spend upto 3 or 4 hours in the bathroom, just washing, shaving, pluking, bleaching, exfoliating...you name it she does it.  She is a very beautiful looking, extremely smart girl who is doing well in her grades but her self esteem is totally smashed to pieces and i dont know how to help her. 
 She is also extremely awkward around people.  She feels intimidated by people very easily and just sinks away in the background and she has a terrible phobia of answering the telephone.  She will actually run from the room if it rings and she is the only one in the room at the time through fea\r i will shout to her to answer it.   
 Ive noticed that she has also over the last few months become distant and doesnt seem to care about society.  A convo i had with her last night asking about future careers fo her, she said she wants nothing to do with the public sector as she doesnt wana help no one, why should i, she said, when all everyone has done is **** all over me.... 
 I feel so bad that she is growing up with such a weight and lonliness on her shoulders and im not sure what direction to take for the best.  does anyone have any advice please.