Hi, I'm looking for help.
 Last August it felt like I was dying and think I was near to a nervous breakdown. I went to the doctors and was told that from the moment I walked in he could see that I was suffering from severe stress. We have a family business that I run and I was finding that the work may be causing me stress. I had to have a month off and drove to Scotland in my camper van where I tried to get better.
 I was so ill that for three weeks I would just lay in the van feeling completely exhausted. I would try and do walks 
with the dog but at 44 years old I felt about 90. I tried to work out why I was so stressed and during the month I examined my life and all the things that were triggering the stress. It wasn't the work itself, it was the fact that it seemed as if everyone was running me down and being critical of me behind my back.
 The four main people I pin pointed were 1: my mother, 2: a woman who we employ and I worked with every day 3: one of my nephews and 4: my twin brother.
 After three weeks away I started to feel a bit better, after another week I was feeling fit and healthy again and the stress was much improved. When I came back I saw my mother and she was really nice to me and different to her usual self. When I went back to work, as soon as I saw the woman I work with I felt bad stress again, I realized at once that for some reason (that I did not understand), for some reason she was a big trigger for my stress.
 To cut a very long story short, I though that the woman I worked with and my nephew were running me down 
behind my back and being very critical of me. I decided that I would start to renovate the business premises and to really show that I am capable of a lot more than I was being credited for.
 The more I improved and renovated that more unhappy the woman seemed to get, it was as if she did not want me to do well because she enjoyed criticizing me so much.
 It all came to a head one day when the woman I worked with after a tiny dispute walked out on me, then she made up that I went ballistic with her and had shouted at her. I then found out from some other people that she has been running our business down for a few years to neighbors etc, I realized that this was why I felt such tremendous stress because she had been going around making up lies about me and slandering me. We had to dismiss her and now she is taking us to tribunal to claim unfair dismissal, redundancy money and whatever else she can get.
 It's obvious that it has been a plan of hers for a while and her whole attitude during this time was causing me stress. I also had to stop my nephew from working with me and I am now feeling a lot better.
 The problem I have is that a lot of my neighbors have believed this woman's lies and don't like me any more. I have been accused of all sorts but instead of asking me, they just automatically believe the liar and my life is now in a bit of a mess.
 The odd thing is that I really do feel a whole lot better because if someone now stares at me as if I am a horrible person, at least I know why. Previously I was getting these looks and it was freaking my head out.
 But I now want to finish working and sell the business (move away from the area and start again) because of what has happened.
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 As for my mother, this is the route cause of my problems I think. whenever I see her I get stressed out feelings come over me and although I have tried my hardest to talk with her about it it always fails to help. Yesterday I finally worked out exactly what the problem is and that is why I have come here to seek help.
 My mother is constantly critical of me, no matter how hard I work or try to please her it is never enough. As soon as I see her there is no normal conversation, it is just constant nag nag nag and put downs. She also constantly boasts about how great she is at everything and just belittles me.
 But the part that stresses me the most is this: When I tell her to be happy and stop constantly criticizing me, she instantly turns on me and says to stop thinking such bad thoughts, she says that she is only trying to help me and being nice to me, my mother then tells me that I have nasty thoughts and she starts to call me names. She will say that I am weird or that I am very argumentative. She will say that I am nasty to her and that I always start arguments.
 I try to talk calmly to her and explain that I don't like her calling me these names and I'm not being argumentative, I am only trying to explain that she is too critical of me and it makes me feel really bad.
 Then she becomes hurt and gives me the guilt trip. My mother will go silent and ignore me treating me as if I have done something so bad that I am like an evil person. The guilt trips that she has put me through have completely destroyed my self confidence and it seems as if I have a kick me sign written on me because other people pick up on something and I believe that the way I have been brought up has had a bad negative effect on me and causes other people to treat me badly.
 I have talked to my older brother today and he feels exactly the same. He too has very low self esteem and no confidence.
 We have decided that at 76 years old there is no way that we can get our mother to change, that would be impossible. I think that I must stop trying to explain to her the way she makes me feel and somehow learn to look at her and accept that she has the problem and not let her affect me.
 I could just try to avoid her, I don't know.
 The other problem is that through my life my mother has run me down behind my back and my sister and father are her supporters, they agree with her and they all get some kind of kick feeling superior to me by doing this (similar to what the woman I worked with did to me, except she was even worse than my family).
 My mother and sister have also run me down to her sons and daughter and they now act superior and look down on me, it is very sad what has happened.
 Then there is my twin brother, he is probably worse than my mother and will criticize, belittle, call me names and list all my problems whenever I see him. Again he will run me down to my family or his friends whenever he can.
 To me it's as if my whole family have these almost bullying traits/problems and I am just a verbal punchbag for them. I have become withdrawn and want to be on my own a lot, I don't bother with friends or anything because I am worried that they will only start to become like my family to me (the kick me sign).
 I think I need some type of professional help, someone who has seen similar cases and can help me and maybe help to explain to my family what has happened and how to change.
 Is it possible that I can fully recover and become a confident person who doesn't let anyone abuse me emotionally again? Or will I always be vulnerable?
 Any advise please?