My husband and I have been married over nine horrible years.  The crap started within 12 hours of the wedding. I spent our honeymoon with a couple celebrating 50 years and my husband spent the entire time sleeping/laying in bed.  We had dinner together twice that week and that was the extent of the honeymoon. After returning home (day 6) he handed me the mail and said to open it, I had not changed my address or moved out of my home prior to the wedding so the mail was addressed to him.  It was a 21 day to vacate notice from non-payment of his mortgage for 7 months. I was livid. He shrugged his shoulders and laid down to watch TV.  He has two sons that were there at the time and I had no clue what to do... he claimed that the mortgage company stole it, the credit union stole it and after a month that I stole it (he says he put cash in the mail, I think yeah, right).  I've been disabled (crushed) since 1999, but I could not let the house get taken so I borrowed the money from a joint account between me and two friends with my husband’s promise that he would pay it back immediately with a loan for which he'd been approved.  Six months later, no payback, and my friends and I subsequently lost the property that the joint account was set up for to make the auto-payments.  Within 3 months, utilities were being shut off regularly, cell-phone service was shut off 3 times (I had to get a landline for emergencies), mid- winter our heat was shut off while he was out of town, for work (about 6-9 days each month) and the boys and I had no heat. I set up electric space heaters but... Then, shortly after I had paid off the heating bill, the electric was shut off.  Again, I went to everyone I knew to borrow the money to pay it off to get service back on.  There was never enough money to pay all the bills every month so we had to rotate paying only the ones with a shut-off notice.  A few months later, electric got shut off again, but he was home this time and flew into a rage, punching holes in walls, cursing, screaming, yelling at me, blaming me, throwing things, breaking my property, etc.  So, just to shut him up, I got another loan.  When we married, I came into the marriage owing a total of $213.43. I earned about $200 a month at my little 8-20 hour a month part time job that helped me have a car when I was single.  At that time, my credit score was close to 800 and I had three credit cards and a couple of gas cards that I used for my traveling to my singing engagements.  I paid them off every month and never carried a balance.  Needless to say, my credit began suffering, my score dropped significantly the first year down to 580 then the next year to 500 as I struggled to pay the bills, doing odd computer based jobs, writing articles, etc. so I could earn a little extra.  Well, 3 1/2 years in we had a house fire that started burning very early in the morning and the boys said something smelled funny to him about it but he again, shrugged his shoulders and since I was feeling poorly and was trying to sleep they went out leaving me alone and ignoring the obvious.  Well, when the smoke finally did wake me, I grabbed my cat, my phone, my purse, in that order, tossed them into a pillowcase then discovered I had to crawl out under the fire, because the doors would not open wide enough to get my wheelchair out being blocked by months of junk that I had been asking him to clean up. I barely got to my car in my robe and a turtleneck tee, bare feet and legs, and no winter coat.  It was 13 degrees below, and 4 feet of snow was piled on top of my car. I could barely get in, toss the pillowcase to the other seat, and call 911 I was so cold. Then, I had to back my car out of the driveway without clearing it off, since I cannot walk to do so, so the ambulance (because I am disabled) and fire trucks could get in.  Fortunately, my smeller was pretty darn good because we only lost one room and some flooring in the kitchen from water damage.  Months later when we got back in, the stress of it all had really taken its toll, and I never recovered the same strength (physical and emotional) as I had before the fire. The fire meant we again had to spend money to replace what the insurance didn't cover, (this time I had to get another loan), the boys room had gotten all new furniture in September and the fire was in January, insurance depreciated it and only paid us about 1/3 of what I paid for it in Sept and nothing for the computer, games or books, just $200 for all the food.  I had done several large jobs to earn enough money to re-do their room with cash. The emergency money I managed to save helped in a big way, for clothes and other needs and to help pay for the motel, then a deposit on an apartment. This had cleaned out all the savings I managed to build up.  Five months after the fire, we could finally move back in to the house and when we did, we noticed other things that were not repaired, water pump, cabinetry loosened by the water, and other things that we had to repair and he did not submit to the insurance company. Less than a year later, he was fired from his job for yelling at patients and their families so the only income was my disability and child support.  He stayed unemployed for the next 3 1/2 years, saying available jobs were not good enough for him and we ended up homeless for almost a year.  I didn't leave him, I should have after the 21 day to vacate notice and none of this would be on my back today, but I didn't because I believed in him, in the better or worse, richer or poorer, sickness or health, vows I took. Long story short, today I am sitting here after getting yet another bad diagnosis in my list of illnesses (leukemia now), so depressed and extremely upset because since being bedridden (nearing 5 years) he has been my caregiver, he picks up my medicines, sometimes feeds me, and sometimes cleans the house kind of.  Not like I would care give but it's his way. It's been over a year since I had a bath or shower or washed my hair, but I'm not complaining, I try to stay positive. Today is an especially throw me into the fire bad day, he had my prescriptions from my pain management dr., and they are now missing, supposed to be filled today, and then again in a month.  My next appointment (the earliest I can get another prescription) is not until 22 August 2014 and the scripts were written to help me, since getting out in the car and sitting up in the dr. office really hurts me and requires weeks of rest to recover.  I went out less than a week ago and got the leukemia diagnosis so I am still a little unnerved and he decides to do this to me too.  Frankly, I don't want to deal with anything anymore. I am done; I don't have a life, not since I married him.  I have heard all the lies I can stomach, I have gone hungry enough days to last me forever, and I am sick of being so 'not clean', at least my sheets are only 8 months dirty, not 18 months like before we lost the house. He took my car away from me (the one I bought before I knew him) and stood over me until I signed it over to him and then used it for a down payment trade-in on his luxury car that I am not allowed to use.  I have no money since he takes the biggest half of my check for his own stuff. I am allowed about 1/4 to pay my bills which include, electric and internet, car insurance, the gas cards he uses, and part of the car payment, sometimes there is not enough left to get all my medicines or medical care but I make due.  Therefore, who really wins, certainly not me; the depression I have from all the crap, or him? Depression can be successfully treated, so I guess that makes him the winner, he is a big, tough man that can beat up on, call names, accuse his bedridden, sick wife, who cannot leave him.  I am so tired of this battle and I hope all my illnesses have a poor prognosis.