So, I've had voices in my head since I was a little kid. I never told anyone about it, ever. Not my parents, not my friends, not my teachers. My mom just figured I had imaginary friends and that I'd grow out of it. I never did. They got really bad when I was in sixth grade and they started telling me to kill myself. My parents figured I did it for attention so I never got any real closure about it. I started cutting myself and became very withdrawn, as opposed to my natural outgoing demeanor. I stopped writing and drawing and being creative. I stopped trying to make friends. I started having horrible nightmares. I failed my senior year of high school. My parents got divorced and my mom moved out of state. 
 I moved in with a friend of mine when I was nineteen. I started drinking. The nightmares hadn't stopped, and neither had the voices. But I'd learned to tune them out to a degree. March of 2009, I met a man through my roommate. He was just this normal dude. Nothing too extraordinary about him. He liked to smoke weed and listen to music and watch movies. Just some random guy. He started coming over a lot because he and my roommate were kind of dating. The more he came over, though, the more I noticed something strange happening. Whenever I was in the same room as him, the voices in my head would get quieter and quieter. Not so much that I was getting better at ignoring them, they were just disappearing. But only when this one specific person was around. 
 I've never in my life heard of a person relieving another person's hallucinations. I've researched it ad nauseum. There is nothing about it in any medical text I've ever read. Why is this one person, just some random, ordinary person, able to quiet the voices in my head when I've never been able to do it myself? 
 Also, I made the mistake of telling him that he had this effect on me, and he just laughed. He and I have nothing in common and there is really no reason for us to ever be together now that I'm not living with my roommate anymore. I do feel romantically for him, but it is obvious that he doesn't feel the same way. But that doesn't stop him from relieving me of my hallucinations. 
 Has anyone ever heard of anything like this? Why this one guy? In a city of thousands of people, why this specific one?