I am so confused and I really don't know what to do after the woman I love broke up with me just over 3 weeks ago to be with her ex. 
 I'm trying to figure it all out. She spent 2 years chasing me, idolising me, always wanting to be with me and eventually I agreed to commit to her 100% yet only 4 months later tells me she wants to be with her ex and for me to move out ASAP 
I feel cheated, betrayed, angry, ashamed and obsessed 
 I did meet her in a psychiatric clinic where I was in for C-PTSD and alcoholism and she said she was in for depression. 
 When it came to me wanting a relationship with this woman because I felt ready and I was 2 years sober, she was in another relationship with this guy who she liked. I explained that's ok lets stay friends and if it doesn't work out let me know. She dumped this guy almost immediately and we began a relationship. 
 I moved out of my place into her house and committed to her and her children 100%, the first few months was amazing we went on holidays etc ... but the last month was dreadful. She had changed ?? But Why ?? This is what confuses me
 I find out she had been meeting up with her ex who she originally dumped to be with me. I asked her who she wanted me or him and she said me and said she will tell him face to face she can't see him anymore and that she loved me
 At 12pm I text her and asked if she felt she made the right choice and she said yes I love you. Then at 3pm the same day I get a message saying "I want to be with X i'm sorry"
 It devastated my world. I lost my partner, my relationship with the children and my home I feel in so much pain and I don't know what I did wrong, 
 Why did she suddenly dropped me without hesitation to be with her ex despite her knowing my past traumas ??? and not caring if I relapsed (which I haven't and won't) 
 She did once say to me if she was ever alone it would drive her over the edge and I am almost sure if her ex didn't want her she would still be with me. 
 Can anyone advise me how I get over her betrayal ? As a man who was suddenly replaced by another man (who consequently now treats her like a princess) I can't escape the thoughts on their intimacy which was once special with me. 
 How do I get past the feeling of her never loving me but shows love to another man. 
 My self esteem and pride are rock bottom and I do not know where to turn. I just want her to want me and miss me. 
 It has been one week now since I implemented NC and I have arranged for her aunt to collect my things from her house so I don't ever need to speak to her again 
 She has been in contact with me via email saying she still thinks of me and hopes I am ok, as I didn't reply I then got a nasty email an hour later 
 and I got another one yesterday that said 
 "Just wanted to let you know that I am sad and sorry that it has ended between us. I am not happy about it and do still love and care for you. But for now is the best for both of us. 
Will miss you always"
 Is she simply a pathological narcissist, someone with BDP, simply is depressed or has decided that the ex she dumped is better for her than I am 
 Please help me try to understand ???