Let's start by saying that I suffer from a Generalized Anxiety Disorder and ongoing Depression. The severity of the depression comes in "phases" (for lack of a better word) in that it'll be subdued for 9-12 months and then all of a sudden I feel like I'm heading back into the abyss. Well I'm back on the slippery slope and I can feel it getting a little worse every morning, every night. I never really followed through with treatment the last time and I came out of it alright, but this time I'm not taking any chances. I am on a medicine called Viibryd that I started this past Monday but is still going to take time to ramp up and take effect. I also started seeing a therapist yesterday which felt great to get some of my deepest, darkest feelings out, but like most things, it takes time. And I understand that. I'm just afraid I might not have a whole lot of it and as I wait for therapy sessions and medicine to kick in, I feel like I'm slipping a little more each day. I've apparently lost my "game face" for work and public situations and its starting to show. People have been approaching me in the last couple of days asking if I'm OK, or if I need to talk about something. The "no its OK, I'm just tired" line isn't working anymore. My girlfriend drove over to my apartment last night to check on me just because the tone of my voice was off and she, as well as anybody, can see my demeanor slipping. She deals with anxiety herself and she broke down yesterday because she knows what I'm going through and it tears her up that she can't help me fix it, and it tears me up that it's starting to have that effect on my relationships.
  My bosses have both been seriously concerned for me and are willing to do whatever it takes for me to get better. Time off, time away - they are very supportive and want me to heal. They are willing to work with me to redistribute my current duties to others within the company to accommodate any time off I may have to take. I feel like I'd be quitting on them if I leave the projects I'm working on, but I know the stress of work is making my condition worse. I just don't know how to handle that decision appropriately. One moment I'll want to "man up" and grind it out and 30 seconds later I want to run away and hide. 
 Regardless, my question:
 Is it worth considering checking into a facility for a few days? How does that process work? I just feel like running from work isnt going to make the problem go away and "working" (physically going to work) through my personal issues are going to make things worse before they get better. I'm just scared, confused, and concerned for my health. Is a facility the answer? I feel like I need a place to just go "relax" both my mind and my body and get back on track.
 Thoughts?