Hello my name is Mike...for the past 3 months i have been experiencing some weird symptoms that literally has had me out of work..not seeing friends..and basically disabled in my room. I started to get these sharp quick pains in my head that last only a split second....the pain is triggered if i move my head to fast or even if i hit a bump in the road while driving....also i have noticed that if i tap my jaw with my hand it triggers the same sharp pain that im feeling. As if that isnt strange enough i also have a 24/7 constant feeling of like pressure and dizziness. The pressure just makes me always feel uncomfortable and im never in a relaxing state, my hand is always on my head and it just feels like theirs pressure in my head that shouldn't be. It gets even worse if i walk into a store or a populated place, i feel like i need to close my eyes and just it down...its extremely uncomfortable. Even when im not out tho the feeling is still here...like i could be sitting at home and its always here..just feels like something isn't right....it makes me wanna shake my head it feels like something is in there that shouldn't be....i find my eyes squinting all the time because of it and my hand always on my head....i went to a neurologist and had an MRI done of my cervical spine and of my brain and both came back normal....i also had blood work done and everything came back normal. Ive seen an ENT, a dentist and a cardiologist also.. I have to mention that back in 2006 i took a couple big blows to my head when i use to do boxing. I experienced these symptoms back in 2008 and then they went away. During 2009 2010, and 2011 i was completely fine and normal. Then in January 2012 the symptoms came back...all of 2012 was on and off..some months i was ok and some i had my symptoms...but in November of 2012 it came back and its now feb 2013 and it just hasn't gone away. Idk wats wrong with me but between the pressure and dizziness feeling plus the actual feeling of physical pain when any kind of vibration goes through my body such as a bump in the road or turning my head to quick or even biting down on hard candy can can set off the split second of sharp pain. I just really need some advice and someone to tell me were to turn to next because im literally falling apart...idk if maybe it has to do with a chemical imbalance in the brain? I also get a pins and needles/numb feeling on the back of my neck and head sometimes. I also happen to notice that when i smoke marijuana all my symptoms get 100 times WORSE...i smoked marijuana multiple times a week for the past 2 years and i was completely fine...but i now notice that if i try and smoke i feel that sharp pain alot more often and my vision along with the dizziness and stuff is WAY worse....its almost like something in marijuana triggers it and makes it worse and thats why i say maybe its a chemical imbalance or something in that direction. I would really appreciate if someone would review this and please at least point me in the right direction....thank you so much...sincerely Mike