Two weeks ago from right now there was nothing wrong with my mouth except that my teeth are crooked.  My teeth are very healthy - just shaped funny.  I am 41 years old, was diagnosed with papillary thyroid cancer in January (my cancer was microscopic so I had no iodine treatment, they think the tyroidectomy cured it.)
 So - two weeks from tomorrow, after lunch, I felt a bump in my mouth.  It is on my gums, about a 1/4 to 1/2 an inch below my gum line.  It is on my lower jaw behind the tooth next to the bicuspid (closer to the middle of my mouth than the bicuspid).  At first it didn't hurt.  It just felt like a little rock hard pin sticking out of the back of my gums.  I had a dentist appointment coming up so I figured I would talk to my dentist.
 I saw him last Friday (6 days ago and one week to the day that the lump showed up).  He did my x-rays and saw nothing abnormal on them.  He saw the lump - he called it a bony overgrowth.  He said about 10% of his patients have them.  
 So I came home and researched bony overgrowths in the jaw.  Everything I found was on Tori, but my lump doesn't look like those.  Plus, tori happen on both sides, mine only happened on one side.  Tori are slow growing - mine wasn't there one day and is the next.  Plus, now it is uncomfortable and it is bigger (OK - it could be uncomfortable because my tongue won't leave it alone, but it is larger now).  Everything I have read has me scared that this isn't a Tori but an osteosarcoma in the jaw.  I am terrified that is what I have because this isn't slow growing like it says Tori are.  I see the mouth surgeon next week (he wanted me to see him because of my molars but when I asked if that guy could look at this too he added that to the referral).  The day of the x-ray he had the mouth surgeon look at the x-ray as well and he said it looked fine.  
 Osteosarcomas of the jaw are so rare I worry that I will be written off as it just being a Tori.  I really want it biopsied because I want to make sure I don't have Osteosarcoma of the jaw.  Anyone out there with an experience similiar to mine?