So i joined today for medical issues and saw this area. I figured i should take this opportunity to share n ask since I don't and have not before. I was raised and lived with my mother, who would be the kindest person but would also be a beast. I was always scared never knowing which side i was dealing with. She would kick, punch, pinch, pull, push, slap, backhand me in my face andentire body. She would say it was because i was lieing or misbehaving. I recieved multiple beatings daily or at least once a day. When i turned 13 i remember brought a 16in long 5in thick padel into the mix. She would calmly tell me to lay face down on her bed and beat hit me multiple times, i would try and ask why she was doing this through the tears and pain and try and cover myself with my hands nut the wood hitting my knuckles hurt worse. As she would do it she would be saying stuff like "it hurts me more than it hurts you" The reason she would tell me was because i was a lier, misbehaving or bad. Her mother and her sisters knew what was going on to a certain degree as they would see  her or see me make a face when we would be out and she would kick or pinch me under the table or take me to the bathrooms at returaunts and beat me in the bathrooms. They would occasionally tell her she can't do that but would never do anything to stop her, tell on her or help me, just sit there and pretend it did't happen. This started at about 4 or 5 to about 17yrs old. My gradmother tried ONCE to call DYFS and a a middle school teacher called himself a few years later after seeing bruisis but did nothing but get me more beatings since she was a cop and DYFS took her at her word when she denied everything. I would be grounded for years, no tv, no phone, no going outside, no wearing jeans, new shoes or any "cool" clothes to school, not allowed to get haircuts, made me wear dress pants that didnt fit, dress shoes and button downs on a daily basis from elementary-middle to freshman in high school. Anything to try and destroy my social life. I would get picked on and fight back, but would then get beat when i got home. Any bad grade, beat, any coment from a teacher,  beat. Any time she wasnt beating me she was hugging and kissing me telling me how much she loves me. As i got older i found myself feeling like angry but also sad because it was my fault when i upset her. Nowadays i can't bring it up without and argument or accusations of lying about what happened, to her not remembering things. (how convienient). The hard part, up untill a recent accident motorcycle accident i never help my aunts, grandmother or mother accountable and continued a pleasant relationship with them. After the concusion though i really have no respect and when i see them im disgusted by the site of them all. The problem is when i see them and my mother i get an intense anger and disgust and i feel it shows, and i argue with them about everything and anything, mostly my mother, than i get mad at myself for acting like that and the vicious cycle begins to thepoint where i feel like everythings my fault. I also get even more upset and anxiaty if my mom leaves after an argument thinking she'll die and the last thing i did before would haunt me forever. I smoke weed daily to concur these fears. I dont know what the F to do or how to act. My father was no better, his favorite was the belt, yet everythnigs my fault and they did nothing wrong to this day. 
Anyway, I dont know why i did all this but i feel something writing it down. Thanks for your time.