Well, all the people are not lucky that they get medicine. I am in Australia but i am from 
 Nepal . We don't have seroquel xr in Nepal. Though i found seroquel from india it will be very 
 expensive. India is a neighbor country. I will be insolvent in few years cause Nepalese earning 
 cannot afford seroquel. But without medicine  I will be fully disable and sex zero. SO i will be 
 gay in Nepal. But i won't be gay abroad. I don't care about sex zero if i don't have disability. I 
 can adopt kid. But Disability is so hard and painful i really scare. Cause i have tested other 
 medicine in Australia and i cannot do anything. I cannot study, i cannot concentrate, i 
 cannot work, i started to get strokes, i will go insane etc without Seroquel.  So I aim to go 
 abroad or live in India. So i won't be gay. If i am abroad i can do marry,  i can work, i can 
 study, but i won't born kid naturally. We have to born kids by IVF if not he/she will be gay and 
 hallaled or dead hanging on. But if i am in Nepal i am gay as well as disable, i cannot marry. 
 Next Nepalese government won't care old people. Thus people are forced to born kids or 
 adopt. I used to think i won't born kid and abopt and that was my dream from childhood. But 
 when i became aware that the kids who are on the street today are naturally born. And 
 those who are naturally born kids they are drunkhards or drug addicts or mental. And that 
 means they will be gay like me and that kid cannot care parents because he needs too much 
 money to care himself. If we calculate the price, drinks and drugs are more expensive than 
 mental medicines. Neither addicts can do any progress nor mental can do proper progress. 
 Thus at least one IVF kid is necessary or don't born sick or dead kid.  Even sick people can 
 born healthy kids by IVF method. But how do i born kid without a partner if there is no sex? 
 and where can i find a healthy kid to adopt? Adoption is very very risky. Because most of  the 
 kids are born naturally.