I was first diagnosed with depression when i was in middle school, around the age of 11 or 12. i saw my first psychologist then because i was lashing out at other students.
 it was when i was 15 that i told my general doctor that i had tried to cut my wrists(just a little cut, barley bled, i had chickened out). i cried for hours, i felt miserable, i had no friends outside of a computer. my parents took me to my first psychiatrist that put me on Zoloft. it made me feel dead inside, i told the doctor, but he just told me to keep taking it anyways. as a smart 16 year old, i decided to go off it cold turkey and had an anxiety attack in the middle of a crowded restaurant while i was working, somehow convincing myself there was no air and i couldn't breath.
 after that we tried a new psychiatrist and new meds, which made the depressing no better but no worse and i just dealt with it for awhile. from age 17-18 i saw a new psychologist that worked with me very well but the depression just never went away.
 when i graduated high school in 2008 i moved away for college. in a new city, living alone, my depression skyrocketed. i almost never left my bed unless i had a class, and i would sleep for sometimes 18-20 hours a day.
 at 19 my father died and i had to drop out and move home. my mother became a drunk and after 3 months with her i took good amount of my cymbalta and what i was on for anxiety from my dad's death, and ended up in the hospital.
 i moved in with my grandparents after that episode and while i was still depressed i wasn't going insane anymore with it. i tried to do college locally but i just could not get myself out of bed for classes and ended up having to drop it. 
 during this time, at the age of 19, i got yet another new psychiatrist who has since then prescribed me about every type of depression medication available. i am now 24, my current diagnosis is major depression disorder and my psychiatrist says he is running out of things to try, I've seen all the psychiatrists in my city, been on so many meds that i don't remember the name of all of them, but am still suffering from depression so badly that i have trouble leaving my room, let alone trying to hold down a job.
 I don't know where to turn, i want so desperately to support myself and have things together but i just can't, the drugs i'm currently on work on days when things are going well, but any little think can make me drop into depression, sometime i think i imagine the things but i can't stop myself.
 when i was 9 years old i had a head injury that gave me a hematoma in the back of my brain, they tested me at some point after that and i tested fine but that was a very long time ago and i don't know if it has anything to do with the depression.
 does anyone have any suggestions? i just don't know where to turn when my own doctors is saying he doesn't know what else to try. if you need more information ask.