Hi, I have been with my boyfriend for 2 years and a bit now and for the first year weary thing was going fine until he started to change. It used to be small things like 'you don't love me' and when I didn't text back quickly he sent question marks continuously until I answered. I started having to keep my phone on me all the time to answer him straight away! Then it started to get worse he used to have a go at me for being with my friends and accusing me of being with boys, when he knows I wasn't. He just got more and more paranoid by each day. Also he used to say 'can I go on your phone' then I say 'why' he says 'you obviously have something to hide' and I say 'no I just don't want you to go on my phone' and he says 'you're obviously texting all the boys if you're not letting me go on your phone'. And everytime I used to invite him over to mine he always made an excuse or say 'he forgot'  when he was just to scared to come. And everytime he invited me to his house I used to go each time and some times I said I was busy and couldn't come he used to say 'you're obviously to busy to forget me' or 'my mum and dad won't be happy' or 'you'll regret this' or 'I'm going forever'. And I always felt guilty so I has to go because he made me feel worse and worse the more he said it. And everytime I didn't meet him he would say 'I'm going forever' or 'I can't do this' or 'you'll regret this' or 'you're a silly little girl' or 'you're just going to meet all the boys. Also he would never let me have contact with other boys else I would get accused of cheating or that I don't love him. But even though I let him talk to girls which I can't really stop him because it's horrible. And my friends tell me to stop talking to him and not to get in contact with him, but it is hard considering we go the same school and my friends are in his lessons and I hate seeing them walking out with him because that makes me want to go back to him. As well as that he'll go round making up rumours and secrets about me like 'I'm really mean and controlling' or say harsh comments about me like I'm ugly or I'm a *****. I really need help to get me out of this situation I can't be dealing with it everyday anymore!