While I know there are people in worse situations in the world, my life is very bad.
 I was disabled a few years ago, which made me unable to work, and then unable to find work within the new limits of my disability (basically desk work).  I tried to start my own business, but my computer was stolen, which was a major set back, as any savings I had are long since gone.  Recently, a family member decided to play a prank on me, by using my credit card bill to change my security info, so my credit, which I was living on and using to pay off other debt, was unavailable to me for a period of time, which destroyed what was left of my financial situation.  As a result, I am now homeless, and don't know how to fix my situation.  I'm on the list for emergency housing, but they say that will take years.
 I have a lot of family, and recently asked them for help.  Literally, none of them will help me.  I come from an abusive family, so I didn't expect much from my parents, but I also have many siblings and none of them will help.  When I ask them why, they start out repeating the type of vague insults my parents would give us, and when I dig deeper, it seems they are punishing me for my parents behavior, not my own.  They use my deteriorating situation as proof that this treatment is just, because if I was good, I would have good luck.  The thing is, I just realized that literally none of them care whether or not I live or die.  I've suspected this for a while, no one seemed to care when I almost died in the car accident, and they let me go days without food when I couldn't walk, but I always told myself that they didn't really understand the situation.  This time, I'm sure that they understand.  They know that I don't have money or housing, they have guest rooms, they just don't want to help me.  They even know that this was caused by one of them playing with my credit card.  They don't care.  My little brother, who I grew up with since we are close in age, and who I thought was my closest relative, doesn't care.
 The thing is, I've been going over my life since childhood, and realized they never cared.  That when they were nice to me, or showed concern, they wanted something.  And I gave them a lot, I made choices where I would sacrifice something important to my life so I could help them in a time of need.  While I didn't fully understand the long term effects of these choices at the time, over the years I came to understand that these choices had changed my life for the worse.  However, I accepted it because I had made them in good faith, and told myself that my siblings would do the same for me in a time of need.  Now that I know that's not true, and worse, that I was tricked into giving up something valuable to help people that didn't really need the help they were asking for, I'm having trouble accepting the choices I made.  It wasn't really necessary for me to give up the things I gave up, but now they are gone and irretrievable, I could have helped them in smaller ways.  I was stupid.  I can see now times when I was being manipulated and lied to, but it's too late.  Extremely low empathy runs in my family, which my parents have, but I don't (my empathy is higher than normal, which is common for people with normal empathy who grow up in abusive households, and I had to be taught to stop constantly asking people 'what's wrong'), but it seems like my siblings have low empathy as well.  
 Now, I'm in this horrible place that will be very difficult to escape, with no one to help me, and surrounded by people who can, but won't help, and I'm wondering if it's worth it.  Should I just let go, and leave the world behind.  My friends all vanished when I became disabled, because it made them sad, and I live in constant pain that is managable on most days, but not every day, made worse by the fact that I don't have housing and can't get adequate rest.  I saw a therapist before things got this bad, and she told me that she couldn't help me because anti-depressants don't work on me, and therapy relies on something in my life going well, so that I can focus on that instead of what's wrong, and being depressed or even suicidal in my situation was normal.  She was even impressed by my coping mechanisms, but I still had housing then, and now even my illusions are gone.  
 So the question is: How do I survive this?  and Should I survive this?