I am 19yr male,
 I don’t take any drugs/alcohol, I eat very healthy. I have very high blood pressure. I have now noticed that the source of the problem is my stress and anxiety.
 I was thinking about seeing a pshyc - instead, perhaps some of you could help me. For the last 1 year, especially after I left home, I feel like I’m a bit messy or confused, I have no control over myself. I have huge mood changes which can last for many days or weeks. It’s very hard to describe my moods, in brief; I believe I have some sort of long-term and short-term moods mixed together. Throughout the day I go through heaps of different moods. I can be happy for 5 minutes and suddenly I’m sad or angry. As my mood changes I become a different person - I act, talk and think differently. The thing that triggers my short-term mood changes is my anxiety; however, my long-term moods are very difficult to live with.
 Sometimes, every 2 or 3 months I have an enormous depression phase. Every time I go through these depressions I feel lonely, I am completely empty, sad, angry and negative.
 Later, as I begin to escape my depression, I slowly become more motivated and I become my "deep genuine self” - that is, the real person deep in me. At this phase, I am calm, I speak softly and I seem to be more relaxed. My self esteem is accurate. I can think more clearly. I seem to be at the “steady balance“.
 Then, as I become more and more motivated, I become really happy and I sometimes feel extremely happy. The things I think and talk about are from the “outside” personalities. The way I act, talk, or even think/function - it’s all a variety of different personalities on the “outside of my soul”. I love to be the center of attention. At this point I think that I will never be depressed again in my life, and I feel as if I am about to live a great life.
 Then, very shortly after my happy phase I suddenly become so irritated and frustrated; I begin hating everyone, myself and everything. Sometimes I get so angry and sad, I can’t be bothered doing anything at all. And then, I’m back to my depression. During this depression I think about suicide and I am self-abusive (not eating properly, not taking care of myself properly). On my own in silence, I implode anger towards my parents where I think I hate them, but on the other hand I feel so happy to see them. It’s even worse with my sister - every time I see her, I’m so happy, but when I get lonely, I start thinking about how much I hate her. I then regret the thoughts in my mind. I even sometimes (rarely) say unnecessary things to people which I deeply regret.
 As my moods change, my opinions also change. Example, sometimes I think that religion is a great way of thinking for faith and hope, and that those who are religious have more self-confidence than others. Other times I think that religion is absolute waste of time and is for weak people. When my moods change, I sometimes hate certain people whom I really liked on other days. My likes and dislikes towards others is uncontrollable.
 Deep in me, I’m very confident, kind/giving and friendly. The only thing that really gives me the disadvantage is how extremely anxious I am about what others think of me. I’m all the time worried and it always has to do with “did I offend him”, or “what is he thinking about”, or “oh no, he’s got that look on his face, I bet he’s annoyed with me”. Sometimes I even get worried about how loud my music volume, or at 6:30 in the morning I turn on my milkshake machine and I don’t want to cause any trouble waking up any of my neighbors - so I simply stress out. Every time I have to pay the bill I imagine heaps of ridiculous situations. Every time I walk in front of people I don’t even know how to act - should I look at him/her in the eyes or should I say “Hey”… I don’t know how to simply relax and be myself. When I’m driving, and someone beeps at me, I suddenly feel so guilty and bad about myself. I don’t know how to have good body/facial expression, I’m too self-conscious. I don’t know for how long I should look at people in the eye when we’re talking, and whether I should switch from one eye to the other - these are just some of the smallest everyday details which I struggle with!
 Other things that make me anxious are imagining bad scenarios before a situation takes place. Sometimes, when I walk near a policeman, I imagine him coming up to me and arresting me for no reason - unfortunately I do get slightly worried and I begin to act suspicious, and then I get more and more worried - I start thinking “is he going to think that I’m weird and ask me questions about how suspicious I am”. When I’m alone in my room, I look behind every 10 minutes to see if anybody’s behind.
 My anxiety is ridiculous, I know it but it’s hard to control; even though there has been slight improvement in the last few months. If only I could let go of my unnecessary anxiety of “what do others think of me??!”, than that would be half the problem away.
 The only bit of history I have which may link to the problems I have now is that when I was young I was a perfectionist at many things. When I was 10, I began developing a soul mate, because I was struggling at school. Ever since, I have always had different ones. Sometimes I talk to him (in my mind, not out loud) - I can have conversations that last for hours. I love having these conversations because it seems to relax me and helps me remember things. But, after all it’s really strange that I do this - sometimes I can’t stop myself. I have had multiple soul mates in the past.
 When I was around 7 or 8, I also started having this strange behavior where I would say and do things that I knew weren’t necessary, but I would still do them. Example, I would walk over to an area or do something completely stupid just for the hell of it and return back to where I was. I would sometimes nod my head in a specific rhythm and I would wait until I stopped myself. Subconsciously I wanted to stop and I even knew very well that what I was doing was completely unnecessary but I just wanted to perform this “thing” because then I would feel satisfied. My mother noticed the head-nodding, and ever since I never did it again. But a few other habits continued.
 These annoying repetitive behaviors have gone away for a few years, but sometimes I still do things that are bad. Sometimes I say random things that simply “pop out” of my mind. Sometimes I say things that can be exaggerated or out-of-proportion. I sometimes say things to people that gives away all my respect and dignity - this usually happens when I’m angry, sad and I want to give everything up. Then, I have to get my respect back from these people, but it’s too late, and my social contact is messed up.
 There are heaps of people who are having such a bad life out there, but, here I am alive with 2 legs and 2 arms, I got heaps of family - and I’m the one complaining. I hate myself for this and I feel weak. I feel so lonely, no matter how many people I’m around with, Ever since I left school, I've got hardly any friends because I don't know how to socialize anymore - I’m always ashamed of myself for no reason.
 Overall, I just feel so detached from the "pure me" and I feel lost and confused. I often have a poor sense of reality. I want to be relaxed and to stop my strange behavior. I can’t sit down for even one minute and simply be! I don't know if I'm making a victim out of myself, I don’t know if I am actually suffering from "something". I try my best to function and live properly but I’m struggling and I think I may need help. I feel completely lost and I want to identify exactly what’s wrong with me. It is getting worst every time. This is not a difficulty, it is a problem because I can't live properly with it.