Alot of people question Seroquel based on the side effects, which is completely understandable.  I was diagnosed at 16 with depression/panic dissorder and anxiety of course. I was initally put on prozac, DID not work, then Paxil.. again a fail. THEN seroquel (at age 17) 100 mg. I felt so much better, but felt like I wasnt getting the 'full bennefits' from it. So the dr. added Lexapro. Eventually I felt myself again. I was so depressed and upset I was done.. But thankfully This medication saved me. I eventually lost my insurance, came off the both of them and felt fine actually. But then after a couple months it all started to kick back in. I will tell you, comming off of Seroquel is not fun. You HAVE to wean yourself off with dr. supervision. I switched to Celexa, because it was affordable.. Still on it 4 years later. But, in between these 4 years, I went back on seroquel for the second time.. It just didnt work.. didnt necessarily make me feel worse, but it just didnt do anything. So I went on Abilify.. AWFULL!!! Talk about bad side effects, and then Geodon.. again.. AWFULL. I ended up in a wirld wind of horrible depression, recently married and felt no emotion. I wanted to actually die. I didnt want to kill myself, but just didnt want to be here.. I have a breaking point. I went to the dr. we decided we will try the Seroquel for the 3rd time, seeing how that, along with an SSRI is the only thing in the past 6 years that I has any sort of bennefit from. Well, 1 week into it..and Ill tell you.. I feel AMAZING! I myself am extreemly sensitive to medication, I have had a hard time finding something that works, and when something doesnt for for me.. It really doesnt work and makes me an awfull feeling person. The side effects of seroquel are like and antiphcotic, anti depressant medication. But all you can do is try it.. be aware of symptoms (but dont let the worry of getting negative symptoms get to your head) and just go with it and see. If all else fails and unfortunatly you do not agree with the Seroquel, let your doctor know and you can stop taking it. Just keep your emotions in check and be aware of yourself and your feelings. You will not die, you will just feel like ****. Excusse the laguage there <--- but it is true. I did in the past gain SOME weight, but nothing untollerable, you just have to controll your cravings for food because it makes you want food, big time! esp. at night. It helps with sleep, but make sure to allow yourself to go to bed early so you get a good nights rest and dont wake up to soon with the tired feeling of the Seroquel. Seroquel XR is what I am on, and it helps. Esp. since when I was on regular seroquel the first time, I did however get restless legs, and the first couple times got rapid heart beat. But this time nothing. My advice.. Try it if the dr. suggests it.. What else can happen? If you feel that awfull, and need a medication.. The least thats going to happen is youll feel the same as you do now, or unfortunatly get worse.. but thats where you need to be aware of your body and mind.. and know when that is happening. Seroquel has been my miracle. And as stated before, I am extreemly medication sensitive. Good luck!