Just some background.  I have always been nice to all my "friends" and never talked behind their backs.  I didn't go out with them much because I am an introvert but they never went out either since we always played sports and video games.  I was always so much better at sports then friend 1 and 2 and when friend 1 had a serious injury he only became worse at sports which made him harbor much anger towards me (I always sensed the jealousy).  He would always complain of the procedures he had to go through and say how jealous he was of how I never got injured.  When we first met I was worse than him but got much better over time.  Friend 1 was definitely the jealous type and an ******* like I was (in general, not to people) but I didn't know he was the kind of guy that would stab a friend in the back.  Friend 2 was just an overall idiot but probably also harbored anger towards me since no one really liked him and since I used to be one of his best friends and our friendship had gotten worse over time I think he may have thought I was talking about him behind his back.  I had also told friend 2 I didn't want to be one of his best men at his wedding because I didn't like being up on stage but in reality we weren't that great of friends and he already had 2 other best men.
 One day I did some "drug" I made and it didn't really have an effect.  Both friend 1 and 2 knew I had made much more complicated things before and also had seen me in much worse shape before.  After I did the "drug" I went and played football with friend 1 and 2 and even watched a movie with them later that day.  The NEXT day, after ample time to realize I wasn't going to be poisoned friend 1 had called my mom and told her I wasn't playing as well I normally do at football.  I might have been acting a little weird so all my mom said was she was worried.  Obviously she would be, but from friend 1 and 2 I expect more since they had known my previous history.  Friend 1 and 2 came to my place and brought a ton of firefighters, ER people, and police to see if I was ok and after they left they told me to come with them to adopt a dog which I wanted bad.  I was gullible at the time so I guess the "drug" had a minor effect.  They took me to the hospital where I was subdued and forced to receive treatment a day after I did the "drug".  I got a catheter and an IV (which I almost hate more than the catheter) and was even restrained in the hospital for 12 hours at once for refusing a medication to help me relax.  
 If you are going to tell me I needed the treatment please don't even respond.  These "friends" know better and from the looks on their faces when they came to my apartment I could see they were genuinely happy in what they were doing.  They were doing this because of the jealousy and anger they had harbored for me and no matter what you say I will always believe this.  I forgot to mention I'm a lot smarter and better looking than them too (I'm not cocky but have to prove my point).  I had literally never seen them this happy in their lives.  I am a lot angrier at friend 1 for some reason because he knew a lot more of my past exploits and friend 2 is a lot stupider but I still believe what he did was out of spite.
 I keep wanting to initiate a fight with each of them and would if they weren't such pussies and if I could find them somewhere where it would work.  I have even thought of vandalism but know that is a ******* way out and I would be no better than them.  At least with a fight they'd have a chance especially if I could get them to throw the first punch (don't hate, it's legal that way....for me at least).  
 I really just want to get over it and every time I move from this ****** hometown I do get over it.  I'm back now for another year probably and everything in this shithole reminds me of them.  When I move away I feel like I've moved on maybe but at this time I can't remember.  Maybe it was because I just didn't think of them with all the work I had to do.  At this point though, just the site of this town makes me sick and when I think of them I get very angry.