Hi just a random question, would a dr have told me if its BPD when they've said its postnatal illness or depression. Its a long story but basically Ive been under the help of the mental health services for a year following the birth of my 2nd child. I had depression with my first but this was easily treated with citalopram. With my second however it was a different story i ended up in a mother and baby unit for 5months initially with psychosis but then once reality came back I was motified what had happened and what my husband said i was like and I also ended up having flashbacks of previous abuse and was headbanging to try and get these thoughts out of my head. (at no point did i tell the staff what was happening) I was discharged into the community cpn and after a few months i took an overdose of all the medication they had prescribed I deeply regret it and cant believe i would have done that to my husband or children but even still did it (i feel so selfish i still cry now). It took about a year I then opened up to the cpn and psychologist about my past , acknowledging it had happened but I dont want to live in the past and want to leave that behind.. I no longer see my abuser and know that i have a fantastic life/job/family and friends. I did get muddled and thought i was admitted to hospital in feb and not march as my husband has just told me and have told them that reality did come bk in mid march (instead of mid april) do u think this matters?? or shall i contact them despite being discharged to rectify this??
 I just worry that because i am someone who puts on a front and wont see help for health issues until things go wrong, (when ill both physically and mentally) In my discharge appt I kinda joked that if I had another baby i wouldnt get help or tell anyone about the pnd as i wanted to fight through the feelings (if i get them) and that i wanted to come off the final meds im on (which they dont advise for a year) But i dislike popping pills and having people fuss, im an independant, strong willed ( or stubborn as both myself and my cpn would have said lol) woman who wants to now get on with her life but understands and feels guilty about the whole suicide attempt and head banging thing. I had also on occasions took some larger doses of vallium when i was having a huge anxiety attacks just to chill, not to do any harm and i had so many in the house (over 150tabs which i did give to my cpn after I realised how rediculous I had been) I only had so many as i just didnt take them for worry of addiction.
 Ive recently been discharged from the cpn and psychologist which is great but just those little niggles that i wanna lay to rest are 
1) does it matter that the date i said reality was around (ish obviously, i cant be precise). Some people may think what am i worried about but once the omg reality hit in it was periods of dissasociation from the flashback and not psychosis ( i just wanna be honest) and a little bit of me thinks they are going to think i had reality when i got to hospital when it honestly wasnt for roughly a month after (from what i can remember) Had ect and my memory isnt the best for this period.
 2) Over the last year i have obviously carried a lot of bpd triats and due to abuse kinda fit the criterior but only for that year... Never before has anything like this happened other than depression from events of my abuser trying to find out where I was which were treated fine with prozac (even though i never told anyone even my dr why i was depressed). My psychologist says that i have lots of biological co-morbidities but because of the abuse i am a high risk for psychological factors and mental illness. I have never ever self harmed or tried to kill myself before this and no way do have thoughts of doing it again?? But they were impusive acts which is a bpd trait along with stubborness and the fact that i never seek help. I want to come off my meds and am tempted but had withdraw problems and a bit of 'hyperness' when i tried a few weeks ago (venlafaxine 225mg) so had to go back up, but even then i didnt explain to the dr's the full symptoms i had. I wanna say isnt it better not to want to take pills but should i just listen for once!!
 Has the 2nd child just brought out bpd or am i being parinoid.
 Is it wrong to just put things straight before laying it too rest, even though i should have done it in my discharge meeting. (i was just so pls'd to be saying goodbye i didnt stop to think of these niggles) Do i do this through an advocacy service?? and then i feel things will be straight.
 Thanks for ur advice!