Hi I am 32 years old and began getting Hot flashes seven months ago. Since I have been helped with my hot flashes I thought Id share my story with others who are experiencing the same symptoms. 
 First a description of what I was going thru: I have never had a normal menstrual cycle. Id seem regular for a few months here and there and then it would be six seven eight months before Id get another one. I began having babies when I was twenty five, one every two years. After my third I began to get Hot Flashes when he was almost completely weaned. It was very scary for me. They started about once every two weeks, then once a week, then three times a week, and just kept progressing until I was getting them every night without fail and sometimes during the day as well. They were very intense, especially at night and they would sometimes last for three hours without a break for more then two minutes. 
Sometimes they were so bad I would feel physically sick. I also noticed as time went on that I was getting frustrated, even angry, way to easily- I am normally a very calm, patient person. I was so worked up over this that I began to get chest pains, which freaked me out even more, to the point were I even had a panic attack one night. I was very scared, I was not this kind of person! Panic attacks didnt just happen to me, I was a easy going sane person! One day I had a hot flash and then became very angry and emotional for no reason. I started crying and panicked, I called my hubby. We had to do something. I dont go to the DR unless I have no choice. I decided to go to health food store and talk to nutritionist first. SHe explained to me that my hormones were imbalanced because my brain was depleted of essential oils and nutrients. And since the brain controls everything, including our thyroid...She gave me a raw whole food daily womans vitamin, Vitex (the chaste tree berry), and Fish oils. My chest pains and attack was stress from my imbalance. I noticed improvements right away, tho I still would get HFs, but there was major improvements. I got my cycle two days after starting regimen and have gotten them every 45 days or so without fail since! I have been on these three vitamins for 7 months now and I rarely get HF. My chest pains are GONE and no panic attacks. I feel like a miracle has taken place!!! On top of vitamins, she gave me nutrients to take 3x a week: ground flax seeds, oat bran and yellow yeast flakes. I stopped taking my vitamins 2 months ago and ten days later my HF came back with a fierceness. I went back on them right away and they are almost completely gone again! On the occasion I feel the beginnings of one, I take extra fish oils and vitex and they disappear in twenty minutes !!! One more tip- In those first few hard months, going to sleep with a cold wash cloth on my head also helped.  Since Ive been helped so tremendously, I thought Id share. I dont advise anyone not going to see a Health care professional. HFs can indicate an underlying problem that needs Dr intervention. But if you check out 'fine', I encourage you to do what I did ! _Mrs. M.