My whole life my sister has been a very jealous, very verbally abusive, hateful and unloving human being. I grew up thinking it was just sibling rivalry and that she'd grow out of it. I also grew up thinking she hated me. As a child she had problems academically and my mother tried to have her tested for Special Ed. My mom's attempts to have her tested were put-off or ignored year after year. When they finally did test my sister my mother was told that my sister probably had a slight Learning Disability, BUT there were so many other students far worse than her that needed the help, so they did not help her at all. So my sister grew up knowing she was not as smart as the other kids in her class.
 As an adult she got married and soon had 2 kids. I thought she would love them so much the verbal abuse would stop, but no she was worse than ever. She verbally abused them and her husband. 
As her relationship strained the verbal abuse turned to physical abuse towards her children. Her husband didn't know what to do and took her to a mental health clinic, which he claimed she asked him to do. They did not lock her up or evaluate her because she was not threatening to hurt herself. They did, I'm not sure if it was this instance of later, diagnose her with adult ADHD and said she had signs of clinical depression. She's recently moved out into my elderly mother's garage. She cannot hold down a job because her attitude and lack of concern towards anything but herself and the drugs she uses. That's another thing she an addict. She smokes pot mostly, but will take any opiate not prescribed to her, as well as speed and anything else she is ever given,
 She is the most unhappy, hateful person I know. She tells her children "F**k You" to their face although she hadn't even seen them in months and months (they live with their dad-thank God). She is verbally abusive to my eldery mother and demands money from her constantly while calling her horrible names like "Stupid" and other choice words I won't repeat. My parents were very loving, I don’t understand how she turned out this way.
I know I was suppose to type a question, but I am so DESPERATE I needed to vent and talk this out to someone, anyone. Please help me, please help my family, help her family. What do I do? How do I help her? Where do I take her? There is something wrong. I know. It's not just hate with her. There is something wrong. Dead wrong. Please help us.