I am wanting some answers about why men feel the need to cheat on their partner. I have lived with my boyfriend for 15 years and we have a 13 year old daughter together. He has always treated me like a queen. I met him at work and right away we both fell in love with each other. The factory that we both worked in closed down and we lost our jobs. We have both worked at various other jobs but I am the one that has been the main provider. He has smoked pot the entire time we have been together and would just maybe work 4 or 5 hours a day. He has done most of the cooking and taken care of our daughter while I worked. For the last 6 years I have been on swing shifts,1 month 12 hour days, 1 month 12 hour nights. By the way he is 49 and I am 55. I thought everything was fine between us until last year around  september, he was coming home late or he would come home around 5 in the morning and make sure our daughter got to school ok. I have 2 sons from a previous marriage. My youngest son is 31 and him and my son do not like each other. He has alot of issues about my son. They have been into fights and he thinks that my son was trying to poison him or put drugs in his food. He told me he feared that  my son was trying to harm him and he did not feel safe around him. Right before the holidays he knew my son was coming home so he would not be celebrating with us. My boyfriend would stay with a friend while my son was here. I never believed any of the things he was telling me about my son was true. My son also has a drinking problem which I'm sure is one of the reasons why they did not get along. This is when we started having problems between us. I also think my boyfriend might be having some mental issues concerning my son trying to harm him. It tore me up inside that he was not coming home and I ended up quitting my job. Another thing, I was on him alot about getting a real job because I wanted him to take care of me financially for a while because I wanted to quit my job because of the swing shifts.I felt like it was effecting my health and I was not sleeping enough. The doctor put me on antidepressants about 3 years ago and I ended up gaining about 30 pounds which did not help my situation because I was already a little bit overweight. I suspected that he might be cheating on me and I questioned him about it every day. He kept denying it. He also said things to me like we really do not have anything in common. I told him you mean because I don't smoke pot. He also kept promising me he would quit smoking pot so he would pass his drug test for a job. Anyway , one night I went to pick up my daughter and asked her to show me some places where he might be. I found him at a house 3 blocks away and began screaming at him about why he was there because a woman lives there the same age as him. He said to me, why are you bothering me? That really hurt me to hear him say that. He told me she has a boyfriend and he was visiting with them. He came home later that evening. She does have a boyfriend that was there that night, but he does not live with her. After I quit my job he was not staying out as late. He was still leaving every night but was home by about 10:30. He was starting to act better towards me and kept denying that he was cheating. I would check up on him and call the places where he told me he would be. They would tell me they had'nt seen him so I knew he was lying to me. Most of the time when he would leave on his bicycle I would watch to see which direction he was going. Anyway ,about a week ago my daughter came home and told me dad is sitting on the porch with that woman with his shoes off and I should go down there. One of my daughers friends lives next door to this women and my daughter and her friend  were in the garage listening to them talking. My daughter's friend's grandma told my boyfriend that I was coming down there. I went down there and confronted them and found out I was right all along.My boyfriend had been lying to this women also about living with me. He told her he was living at his friend's house,where he kept his truck. He would not leave his truck parked at my house. I also became suspicious about that. I found out from this women he bought her a ring at christmas,but he also bought me a more expensive one. The one he gave her, the diamond fell out of it and she got mad about it and gave it back. He took it back to the pawn shop and got his money back. He gave her heart earrings for valentine's day. He would never be here at supper time and found out he was eating at her house. When she found out he was sleeping with me she told him to never come back. He told me her daughter had died from a drug overdose about 1year ago and he felt sorry for her. That was real nice of him to go down there and comfort her when I was home every night going through hell wondering what he was doing. He has been here every night with me since then, telling me how much he loves me and does not know why he kept going down there. He told me he tried to have sex with her but it wasn't any good because she was so thin and their was something wrong with her back, which I am having trouble believing. Even while all of this was going on he was still all over me wanting sex. He also told me I took him for granted. When I was working I guess I was always too tired to have sex as much as he wanted it. He complained about he wasn't getting it enough. I wish I had paid better attention to his needs and this might not have happened. Their were things that I said to him I wish I hadn't said, like this is my house and if you don't get off the pot and get a job you can find another home. This women also owned her home and I'm thinking he might have been looking to move in with her. He went from not wanting to be around me at all to wanting me more after I quit my job because we had started becoming a little more intimate. I have been asking him questions about why he did this to me and maybe he should stay somewhere else for awhile so I can sort things out and he does not want to leave again. He promised he would never do it again. It kind of sounds like he was going through a mid life crisis or do you think he might be a compulsive liar? Something else that I failed to mention is he had hundreds of porn pictures on the computer whitch my daughter and I caught him looking at and my daughter erased all of them. Or do you think he might also be a sex addict? What do you think?