May 2013 I had my gallbladder removed due to a functioning problem...it was functioning at 23%.  Since, for the most part I have been ok except an issue with the same area swelling and hurting...on occasion it even radiates to my shoulder as the gallbladder pain did, but that is happening less and less with the swelling & pain.  I have altered my diet in so many ways...cut dairy, cut wheat products...nothing helps and the symptoms just keep becoming more constant.  During a visit to the ER just prior to my HIBA test, I was told there was a cyst on my liver that needed to be biopsied and looked at more closely in a hidden area of my liver.  I told my Dr. about this and was assured that he would relay the info to my surgeon.  After surgery, I was told there was nothing to be concerned about, but I never saw anything on paperwork about a biopsy or anything concerning the cyst.  More and more, as I go through my daily routine, I just don't feel well and always have a bloated belly feeling without the gas of gastric issues...just the bloating, swelling and pain.  I can tolerate the pain as it isn't too sharp most of the time but, at times it is quite bothersome.  Recently, I have noticed more pain towards the center of my belly just next to the swollen area too and pain in what feels to be my upper kidney area just below the swelling.  I have told my Dr. about these symptoms on a few of my visits and he doesn't seem to think there is anything to worry about.  I have been told that happens sometimes when the gallbladder is removed.  As this issue is becoming a very persistent one...daily...it is concerning me more and more.  My Mother passed away from Liver Cancer that was diagnosed due to abnormalities in routine blood test only 2 weeks before she passed away.  I thought it might be coming from Zocor that I was taking as I have had issues with it and my Dr. dropped my dosage down.  At first, this seemed to help some, but the symptoms quickly became bothersome again.  Any thoughts would be appreciated.