Hello, I am not sure if I am posting this in the right forum. I just wanted some advice on a stressful situation. I am 16 years old and my parents are seperated, for about 2 years (maybe more) my dad has had a girlfriend. Last year we met when my dad took me out to dinner with her, everything went well and we went out a second time. The second time went well too, they discussed going out again soon before dropping me off. In the next couple of weeks I had not heard from my dad and had called his cell for about a week with no response. I called my grandfather to see if he was there and he gave me the number to his girlfriend's place because he was living there. When I called I thought everything would be fine, I said hello, can I speak to my dad please. She completely flipped out and told me to call him on his cell, and I said but I have tried for about a week and can't get a hold of him. She then said not to call her number anymore and hung up. I tried once more only to discover she had blocked the number I had called from. This left me confused because we had gotten along and everything was fine. I called 2 more times, on different numbers to sort things out and talk to my dad but she just blocked those too. Needless to say he was there with her, he called me back on my phone and told me he was there with her. In the end  he said that he thinks that I was mean to her, so he took her side. At Christmas he spent Christmas day with her and my brother. She had invited my brother to her Christmas party but I was not allowed to come. Once again my dad took her side, so for months him and I had no communication. Anyway now him and I are talking again, but she is still his girlfriend and since then she has had arguments with my brother to the point where he won't talk to her anymore. My dad says that he is allowed to have a relationship, and that both my brother and I just weren't trying to get along, however both him and I were trying until she isolated both of us. I am just at a loss at this point, all it causes is stress. I don't know what to do. Any advise would be appreciated. Thanks so much for taking the time to read this.