I start to feel almost bored and restless at around 6pm and I feel like there is nothing to do and nothing excites me. For example, I think of the weekend and it just makes me feel like it's not worth it and I will not enjoy anything ever again. This then leads me to otherthink and worry and stress which makes my heart rate faster and increases my panicking. These feelings of emptiness and restlessness progress to nothingness and makes me feel down and depressed. I look around the room and wonder how everyone else is happy and content. I guess I don't really feel sad, I just kind of feel nothingness, but that then makes me feel sad. That's the 'emotion / feeling' kind of part. Second part is the physical. I feel dreamy and almost like I'm not really awake / experiencing my day normally. I don't feel any dizziness or sickness or anything health-wise so people could say it's harmless, but the way it makes me feel is awful and isolated, as though no one can understand or take it away. I feel like I have lost control of my thoughts which terrifies me. Also scarily I'm only 14 which is uncommon, so I don't want anything bad to be starting because I just want to enjoy my life again normally like everyone else and every other normal teenager. Note, I got a case of flu around New Years time and it started out as medical symptoms obviously (sore throat, cough, blocked nose, etc) and on the first day of it I woke up with the dreaming sensation. I couldn't focus and at one point I couldn't even tell what was real. I've cried almost every night since New Years as I get so upset and scared and terrified of this. I am an over thinker but I've never had this strange feeling deep inside me. I went through a week of missing school (only because of the actual 'ill' part, and as I went back to school I noticed i started the weird feelings so perhaps I feel as though going from the busy school routine to doing nothing at home makes me weird. I don't even know, I've tried my hardest to explain it but I can't seem to really word it out. If anyone knows anything about this , please feel free to help me. I just wanted to state how I feel in the hope someone will recognise or relate to it as I've never felt more trapped, alone, or empty in my life. Thanks, Vanessa (P.s I have never been diagnosed or considered having Depression or anxiety - I am usually a healthy and happy person!)