I have been in an on and off relationship for 8 years with a man, that frequently abandons me. I'm 55 and so is he. I let go for a good month several times and then we get back together, its either him contacting me or vice versa. But today I really got a wake up call. He mistakenly called my phone and I overheard him talking with a friend of his, they were going out to this parade and hitting the bars after, and it just was the way he talked-was like a complete different person. When he realized he called me he cursed and hung up instantly. I had texted him he called me by accident-and said by the way have a good time at the parade. I know it was childish, but I got so angry hearing that, I guess being excluded. I think about how many Sundays I am sitting home by myself while he is out with friends of ours or his, having a good time. It just really wears on me.  
Our breakups result in usually him being angry at something I said, and stomping out, and then we are in break up city. The last one, was because I came into the room, and saw him sitting on my sofa with the most misery look. I felt like this was going to be an awful day, because of his moods. I said something to him, about that he did not look happy, hoping he would come out of it. And I was annoyed. I had the day off and he looked like he was so angry. He went through a bad divorce and has a lot of anger against his ex wife. Didn't know if he was thinking of her or something else. I had been going through this ordeal with him for the last 8 years.
Instead, he got up, went into my kitchen and put his boots on and stomped out. I had ran after him asking where he was going?? He ignored me and peeled out of my driveway-you could tell, really angry.
I had taken off that day, because it was the day after my birthday and we were going to go out for the day, but that certainly went to crap because he stomped out. He then sent me a text a little while later, saying "enjoy your day off, I'm not going to be talked to like that." The thing is, all I said was, he looked miserable. The truth is, he did look miserable..But he has said so many things to me far worse then that!! and I don't stomp out and dump him for the day.  You just don't know when its going to happen, what is going to set him off and a disappearing act. He can be so good and nice and affectionate and then so rotten..soooo rotten...
So can someone help me deal with this terrible feeling?