Background noise/thoughts just swimming around my head, if I could put it into actions I'd describe is as maybe trying to catch a fish thats in water with your bare hands, only the fish always seems to slip out of your grap when you feel like you've just caught it, being the same type of thing with the thoughts. You feel like you've just grasped what the thoughts are and what they're actually saying but they just slip away. At least that's what mine is like, everyday though a couple of thoughts find their way in control and I hear or think what these thoughts are saying, not too much that it takes my attention away but they're still common everyday. I sometimes hear voices, maybe a common thing with peoples heads playing tricks on them but hearing my mother call my name when she's not in my house, or my brother or anybody related to me, are the only time i've ever heard voices, kinda like in the background slightly muffled but definitely noticeable. But obviously this is more focused on these thoughts, I've had this for i'd say 5-6 years. I've kinda got used to the thoughts that definitely aren't mine, well currently thinking about it all worries me ever so slightly as I sometimes get thoughts saying "This isn't me, I shouldn't be like this" when it comes to a situation where I've probably felt a strong emotion where I seem to be vulnerable. Then multiple thoughts come by telling me to do things, or things like "to make up for yourself being a wimp you should go do this" usually involving violence. The reason that it's starting to worry me is because, it seems like there's somebody trapped in my mind and they tolerate the way I am mentally by way of what I think and feel but only reveal themselves when I'm emotionally weak or vulnerable, or just randomly on occasion saying something strange but nothing for me to stop and worry myself too much over. It doesn't seem like it's too much of a problem everyday, I don't seem to pay attention much during the day but at night it's usually when the thoughts become more frequent, as during the day the thoughts are almost background and I'm focused on my one true selfs thought if you understand what I mean? but as night approaches, or darkness in any sense comes, the thoughts seem to allow themselves to be heard, if that's the right way to put it, or allow themselves to be thought? And considering I have trouble sleeping it's hard to cancel out the thoughts. If I repeat myself I apologise, I don't hear voices but I think things or hear thoughts, almost background noise type of things, like being in a busy restaurant, you know there's voices but you don't actually make out the words everyone's saying, is what it's like when I think. It's kinda like when I think, or try to control my thoughts there's other thoughts there i can't quite grasp.