My ex bf who wasnt really a bf just a psychopath who was messing with my head mostly...is bitter about his life situation and has threatened to ruin my life....hes also a photographer...and in the past would force me to take naked pictures against my will--saying they're for him...or he would abuse threaten coerce etc...me into doing them saying that he gave me nice pictures and that i need to give him what he wants..'dirty pictures'...i'd probably do a few before making sour looks and then he'd get angry and say OK *** THIS U NEVER DO WAHT I WANT?!! I NEVER GET WAHT I WANT?!! he promised the pictures would go nowhere but a year ago i found all of the pictures he took of me in private newsgroups under an alias....this was upsetting but there wasn't much i could do at the time and the cops asked if i signed a model release....and i said only once many years ago but not from any of the pictures he posted. 
 Recently...things have gotten worse...we barely talk and are just acquaintances...but hes bitter because hes homeless and blames me for his financial problems...(not sure why just a sociopath blaming others and is a pathological liar)....he said hes going to ruin my life...and has a domain name which is my name that he bought....and posted my name, address, and naked pictures of me on the website...he also did it on another website but i luckily had the password to the website and went in and deleted everything---which has further infuriated him....he claims i maliciously "deleted pictures from his website" which were nude pictures of me with insulting language and my name/address etc...which is absurd...that he would even think that way. The other website however...still has all my pictures with my name, address...and its been a week now and ive been told I need to go to the cops but im not srue what to do---is it a crime to do this-- I assume it has to be...he has also called my mother and harassed her numerous times...but the pictures are really starting to bother me --i dont like dealign with cops as im scared they might just shrug it off and say hes a photographer....but, of course the manner in whcih he posted this material is malicious and i have emails of him saying hes going to get revenge against me...and quotes from the Bible about a tooth for a tooth type nonsense....this guy is a lunatic and psychopath too...im not scared of him but he has done legal and other things to me and my life...to really screw with me....in this case now.... I just want to be sure that posting those naked pictures of me with a nasty blog and my name and address in bold caps is illegal....and that the cops will hopefully do something about it. I already called godaddy the domain place to tell them about it---im just not sure what to do or what would be the best way of handling the situation....
 here is what he wrote on the website in large bold letters
  My name Says Suck Me Off @ my address
My Name Is (      ) and I love Getting Sucked Off In Parking Lots
  I just Love to spread my legs for the camera...
  then he has this disgusting blog...about me saying false things etc...with lots of nude pictures
 and all my information....ok i guess its starting to really get to me and make me sick....
 can he asy that he has a model release and that this is ok? he dseont have a model release
 for any of those but he claims he will lie and make up false model releases....
 on top of that i dont or cant imagine how posting someones name, address and sick things
 about them wuold be allowed anyway even with a model release....
 also this sick predator is 59 years old....and just a very twisted messed up person....