Hello,
 I am really having a hard time with my life right now. My father was just diagnosed with lung cancer stage iiib and my mother has BPD. 
 My parents are still married and live together, and they have always had a stormy relationship but they have been together for over 25 years. As a child I was verbally and sometimes physically abused by my mother and her mood swings, name calling, and guilt trips often left me feeling very bad about myself, angry and very depressed. 
 It took me a long time after I moved away  to set up boundaries and get my life together . My relationship with my family has gotten better over the years and for a while there was hope that we could all get along enough .. I must confess that I still have trouble with my boundaries at times though, especially when it comes to guilt trips about money... because I often times feel responsible for helping my mom out financially as well as emotionally because she is so isolated. I do love my mother,  but I often find myself resenting her especially right now with all of the extra stress in my life. I do not want to feel this way. I also believe that my family dynamic is very unhealthy because everyone -- my father and all of my brothers and sisters- cater to her episodes and will do anything she asks to get her to calm down. If someone in my family doesn't agree with her or do what my mother asks then they are turned into the " victimizer" or "villain" because they upset the "apple cart". So when I do stand up for myself or do something that is more for me than for her -- then everyone in my family turns on me and is upset with me-- because she in turn will make everyone else's life miserable with her tantrums.  I was able to separate myself from this dynamic until a few weeks ago
 A few weeks ago my Father was diagnosed with lung cancer and I am very close to my Dad. My heart has been broken throughout this ordeal and I have been spending alot more time at home-
 The stress I feel at times is really almost unbelievable. I cannot afford therapy and I would really love some advice on how to be able to help my father without succumbing to the barbs thrown at me with my mother's illness. Sometimes I have to stay at my parents house because he needs alot of assistance while undergoing chemotherapy. I have alot of roommates where I am living so it isn't feasible to have him stay with me.
 Throughout this ordeal my mother has gotten more and more abusive verbally and has had many many tantrums -- she worries about herself and what will happen to her if my father dies. She cannot work to support herself and she depends on my Dad for everything. At times my Mom can be very loving. at other times she blows up and yells at everyone, and has these terrible temper tantrums that often times frighten me.. 
 I feel very trapped sometimes because currently I cannot get away from my mother, and it hurts very badly to be faced with her abuse on a daily basis, especially when I am trying to help my Dad recover.. I am also trying to deal with the fear that he may not recover because his cancer is advanced.  If anyone has any advice on how to can shield myself from my mom's "episodes" and still be there for my dad I would really appreciate it.