I have come to an impasse and don't know what to do. My husband and I have been together for 10 years.  He had a 5 yr old little girl when we met that he has full custody of.  I have raised her since then.  Part of issue is that all along her grandmother and mother talked badly about me in front of her.  She quickly learned that she could get them to buy/do things for her if she spoke bad abt me too or straight up just told lies.  For the last 10 years I have been lied about all the while raising her and having to do all the "motherly" things she needed.  Time and again I had forgiven her since she was a child and I believed it was not her fault but the adults in her life.  I hoped that one day she would see that what she was doing was wrong and stop it.  Every time she doesn't get what she wants she runs to other family members and cries about it and they do/buy it for her.  It has completely undermined our authority as parents, she lacks any respect for us and as a result we have not bond whatsoever.  We now have a 4yr old & 8 mnth old.  My husband is a wonderful father to them and I love him dearly but my SD has crossed a line with her lying and I do not want her in our home any longer.  She lied about stuff to her school counselor and they called in DSS.  I have been pegged as a "alleged perpetrator" for things I never did nro would do.  The worst part, and what I am most upset about, is that my children where put in harms way and the potential for them to be taken from me was there.  She is currently w/ a family member but it is short term.  I am adament she not return bc I don't want another lie to jeopardize my kids safety.  She is a chronic liar which her dad says is "normal kid behavior" which it is not.  The numerous prof. now in our life say the same.  He wants to let her back in home and I don't want anything to do w/ her at all ever again.  I can't go back to living like that.  Being lied about, stabbed in the back and judged by anyone who will listen to her lies about me.  It is really intolerable.  I love my husband and don't want to leave but I feel like I have no choice if he doesn't respect what I am asking for.  My SD wants to be anywhere else but here as well except there is not really any place for her to go since her bio mother is a total loser.  I don't want my marriage to end over this and I don't want my kids to not grow up w/o their dad but I just can't keep living like this.  Any advice would be greatly appreciated!