I am 20 year old female. This is my story: My mother married my father when she was 15 and he 23. He is a diagnosed schizophrenic but she did not know till many years later. He was also a womanizer and alcoholic throughout their 20 year marriage (yes they only divorced recently). From day one of our births my brother and I witnessed my father savagely beat (almost to death several times, she has a scar on her temple),  verbally abuse, and even rape our mother before our very eyes. He never hurt me or my brother but always threatened when we would yell or try to call for help and we remained silent ever after. He abused my mother for no reason she was  a very devout christian, good wife and mother despite being only a teenager. For example, when visiting family if there were any male strangers present he would beat her just out of sheer jealousy. The men could be old and uninterested but he would still react and in front of my family who never helped my mother. He even beat her when pregnant with us. Needless to say my brother and I have severe post-traumatic stress disorder, but thats another topic. All suggests slight insanity. He gave up drinking years ago and my brother and I tried to make peace with him. He never apologized and adamantly denied ever having abused my mother even though we saw it all. How cynical. Well, he has left the country upon divorcing my mother and took very little money.  He was never away and I find it very peaceful. 8 months later (present) he makes contact with us, says he is remarried, and asks for 300 dollars to return. He will come back here with no money, home, car, job, or savings. I do not want to have him in my home, he will never leave, he is 40 something and can take care of himself but wont. My bother and I are struggling with jobs and college and it is not fair. I love my father despite all of that but I don't really want him to return aftre he was told to save his money instead of spend it out of country. Should we do it just because it's our father regardless? Or, Like what I think, he gets what he deserves, and technically isn't asking just being given a second chance?