It's been a year or two since I last wrote on here. These boards are great and I recommend them to a lot of people who are going through issues and questions about their medications, whether to start or stop.. Too often doctors don't seem to really give us the time and attention we all deserve when it comes to mental health medicine or else they are just not that knowledgeable about the effects of medication. I find this site has taught me a lot, all of you with all of your experiences .. You're the real thing, and your experiences help others with this thing many of us deal with.
 This morning, as I'm waking up, I'm laying in bed faced with yet again another crossroads in my life when it comes to depression. 
 I've been on Lamictal and Wellbutrin 150mg of each per day for the past year and a half. Wellbutrin a year or so before that but it was making me a bit hypomanic and emotional so they added Lamictal to the mix.. and bam, instant calm, feeling balanced, strong, happy for a whole year and a half for the first time ever. Only my memory, focus, concentration, awareness and mostly importantly my creative spark and ability to write are also gone.
 I won't fool myself wiithout medication, when I was younger, the depression was bad when it hit. All the usual feelings of unplaced guilt, low self esteem and low self worth, lack of belief in one's self and one's aspirations and dreams, paranoia, constant worrying, shyness, and times of crippling sadness... wanting to die.
 But I got through it each time, with a sense of faith, spiritual or otherwise and with my creativity.. writing songs and transcending the situation that way felt good. Two and a half years ago some things happened that made it hard to take my mind off of.. I couldn't get better no matter how hard I tried. So I gave in and went on medication. After a lot of trial and error I found a combo that worked.
 The lamictal has caused weight gain in me also.. I know people say it shouldn't but it did. I was really skinny before so it ain't a huge deal but I have less energy than I used to. I feel my body growing old on it.
  I am in the middle of a crucial time in my life for my career and a lot of obligations I need to fill both physically and creatively. I have tried and tried time and time again. I cannot write or focus or concentrate enough to create something on Lamictal since I started it. My brain power feels like mush.
 It's a shame. I can't live like this though.
If I don't write, if I don't get back my sharpness of mind, my life is pretty much over anyways.
 So my question is, are there any other artists out there who know what I'm talking about?
What are your experiences?
I need help.
 I went off the Wellbutrin cold turkey last week. I have some headaches, body aches, foggy mood and fatigue but nothing too horrible yet. I am beginning the weening off of the Lamictal now less 25mg every two weeks....
 Hopefully no rash issues!
 I know every doctor would disagree with my choice to get off the meds but I need my brain back. I need my spark.
 A lot has changed in my life over the past two years and I am in a good place.. even though I don't always see it that way and I still worry a ton and get down... but I feel a lot stronger and more care free. I am afraid of losing that without the meds. But what can I do...
 I'm also just starting weekly CBT therapy - so hopefully that will be a good cushion while I ween off the meds.
 Any advice or experiences would help..
 Have any other artists learned to live without meds?
Or learned how to create amazing work on them?
 Is big memory loss, lack of concentration and no creativity a sign that I should probably stop taking something?