Hi Everyone,
I am a 57 year old male with non invasive recurring T1 High grade papillary urothelial cancer. My last TURB 
was 12-10-13.My first TURB was 11-9-2009. I had no known recurrences until last year. I was remiss with my followups for 2 years as I moved to the Caribbean. I was last scoped yesterday (03-14-2014) with no abnormal findings.  On the surface of this discussion, some of my doctors (and my wife)  say I am technically cured.... only requiring 90 day peeps into my bladder so as to be sure nothing else has grow large enough to be seen that would need to be removed. And, that I should not worry like a crazy man. "Give it to God" Sounds like a simple and sound plan to me. I was told  that the cancer I have is" NO BIG DEAL COMPARED TO THE PROBLEMS OF OTHERS being treated for much more serious types of cancer, and that I should not worry...Case Closed.... I would never dare compare my cancer to that of others.  But people seem to be treating me like I am. I AM LIVING IN GUILT TRIP CITY!!!   I HATE IT!
My wife and other family members are so "sick and tired of me" always talking (more like worrying) about everything that's going on in my head and in my body. I am afraid that my worrying and frustrations have gotten the best of my character and has turned me into a difficult person to be around (that is putting it nicely). Please accept my apologies in advance should I communicate in any other way than is acceptable.
Truthfully, I am just as afraid of what my disease is doing to my wife's health and to our relationship as what it is doing to me.  I read somewhere that there could be a "head thing" to this illness.   I think I might have that.
  I am scared to death of this cancer and the things I have read about it.. I seem to be always worried, without sleep and of course expected by others to perform like nothing is wrong...
I asked my Uro for a referral to an oncologist to see if there is any sort of aggressive treatments are available as I am not the sort of person who tolerates " the wait and see" mentality very well.
 The prescribed course of action is now BCG with interferon.After reading tons of opinions I am even more doubtful,worried and scared  of a this proposed BCG Interferon treatment plan (1.5-2 years)  which by the way cost tons and tons of money. Will someone please tell me if I am doing the right thing with BCG w/ interferon. The pros the cons. Please help me understand the things I should know about BCG.
  I am tired of being told to "give it to God" and that all my problems will be solved.....I need hard truthful facts. Not tainted or diluted but helpful, directive and informative. 
Thank you all in advance for your time and thoughts.
Bobbynpr