Hello, Im a 16 year old boy in high school and this is my problem.
 Since I have started to hangout with my friends (which I haven't done my whole life), I have no desire to do anything but go outside and just hangout with them. Its gotten to the point where all I think about is hanging out with them. To top it off, I really like this girl in the group and it doesn't help that all I think about is her. I hate not being able to think clearly. And now that my parents found out that they do drugs, they ordered me to never hangout with them.
 There not bad people at all. On the contrary, they encourage me to do well in school, don't force me to do drugs (they respect that I don't do them), and they also motivate me when I get sad. My parents have it all wrong. They think Im going to become a drug addict and drop out of high school. However I have no intention to do either. Im a very obedient boy and always have been. Always doing what my parents want me to do, always getting good grades, and am always being nice to everyone. Still, they have no faith in me. I hate that!!!
 Why can't they trust their son who has always been good. I know they love me and want nothing bad to happen to me but Im growing up and they need to except that Im going to have to learn about certain things through my own experiences. Im tired off always doinging things I don't want to do. Im tired of pleasing others at the expense of me not having fun. Im tired about no one caring about my opinion. Im tired of being/feeling alone.
 I really need help because I can't stop thinking. I think 24/7 about my life. Thinking about hanging out with my friends, girls, my future, my weight, my grades, and overall finding out who I am. This thinking about friends and the girl I like is honestly effecting me every second off my life now. Since the start of this school year, I have had so much homework that the only way to relax is to hangout with my friends, but its gotten to the point where school seems pointless now.
 One point that I want to make clear is that I will never do drugs ever!!! And I hate that my parents don't believe me. 
 Please, someone. I need help. I cry everyday and don't know what to do. I constantly think 24/7 and its effecting my grades, mental state, and overall my life. If anyone truly cares, please respond with an answer. I've been feeling depressed for 3 years now, and I've finally cracked. Thanks for reading this, and I hope you have a better day than me. You most likely will...