First of all please bear with me because this is going to be long.
  My 10 year old daughter went to the doctor after she complained of her left knee hurting for quite some time. (about a week) The doctor ordered xrays of the leg which showed she had a lytic lesion. We were referred out to orthopedics, however the appointment was 2.5 months away. She was put on crutches because her gait was abnormal in July. 5 weeks after being on the crutches, her left ankle started swelling and was painful. I noticed it on a Sunday so we tried elevating, heat and ice and when it didn't go down I took her to the doctor on Tuesday. I was told to take her to the er since I couldn't get her into the orthopedics office any sooner. 
 She was admitted to our local children's hospital on 8-27. 8-28 she had a bone scan of her entire body which showed the lytic lesion on her left knee as well as a new one on her left heel. They also say pockets of fluid on both sites. She went into the OR on the 28th to have the fluid aspirated as well as fragments of bone removed for a biopsy.
 Two days after surgery she saw an infection control doctor who read the pathology as negative and called it Chronic Reocurrent Multi focal Osteomyelitis, or CRMO. Her pathology report was negative at that time, but it did come back with two different bacterias in both spots after 10 days. She had staph and something called enterococus. Her bone came back normal but did show chronic inflammation. Now we are being sent to a rheumatologist The orthopedic and the infection control doctor have two different diagnosis for her. IC thinks she has a classic osteomyelisis case. Ortho thinks that she has something called histiocytosis x.
 She has been back to the er a few times since I got referred out to the rheumatologist but that appointment isn't until mid December. 
 Here is what I am wondering. If this is what the ortho thinks it is and is histiocytosis, shouldn't I be going to an oncologist? I was told by the er doctor that this condition is treated by an oncologist with cancer like drugs even though it isn't cancer. I am wondering if I am wasting my time going to the rheumatologist because that is something they highly suspect she has.