I have 2 half sisters, one who is 4 years older then me and the other who is 5 years older. 
 Since a young age they have always ganged up on me and hit me- but my parents obviously stopped them and kept a eye on them. I remember once when they locked me in a suitcase and threw it down the stairs, and another time when walking the dog my eldest sister kind of strangled me, she grabbed my neck with 1 hand really hard and I struggled to breath until i kicked her away. 
  But mainly what I'm worried about if my middle sister. When I was 7, and she was 11 we shared a room and once she dry humped me and told me it was a fun game. I didn't understand what was going on, she always told me it was "our special thing" this carried on till I was around 10, so she was 14. Sometimes it would go a bit far and I would shout at her to stop and she would leave me alone and soon I threatened to tell someone about "our special thing" so she left me alone 
I knew she didnt want me to tell, i didnt know why it would was so bad to tell.
   I'm now 14, and last year after sex ed classes at school, and PSE. In once lesson our teacher breifly said how if we were pregnant we wouldnt get judge and we should see a nurse e.c.t we were then told how everything we tell a doctor is confidential- but if we mentioned to one of the school nurses about any abuse it would be reported, in this lesson I learnt really how what my sister was doing was very wrong. That year all my grades went low, and I didnt finish any of my exams.
 This year, although still very unsure weather what happened to me was sexual abuse, she was only 11 when it started? I'm confused and dont know what to do. But I think I have more come to terms what happened to me although that hasnt made anything better. In a lesson this year I lost it- I shouted at the teacher and stormed out the lesson, I later said it was because I was dyspraxic and my exams were bad and made up a number of reasons why I was upset. So now I have seen a child therapist who thinks I have Aspergers Syndrome, for reasons such as
 my massive fear of the dark
Being a loner and having no social skills
struggling in exams
being extremely paranoid
and not letting anyone hug me or touch me. I scream and full on attack anyone who goes near my personal space. 
 But I think maybe all these symptoms could be cause by the abuse. I just dont know, I'm only 14 and I'm confused and dont know what to do or how to handle anything that is going on.