Hi
I am new to this thread but asking for advice. I am in my 2nd marriage for 4years now. My previous I filed for divorce 6yrs ago, we had 3 children together, but he was abusive & worked away a lot leaving me alone most of the time to raise the children.
My current husband & i met few months after my divorce he helped out with the children more than the biological father first we were just friends then the friendship grew. Initially he never told me he had a child & in the early stages I later found out he had still been seeing his child's mother but later broke up to be with me. Nevertheless I wasnt mad as i planned before we met to move abroad to be with family as my ex was even more unsupportive after the divorce so I needed help with the children. My ex agreed for us to go & i thought my current relationship cant materialise if we are so far away so I just enjoyed the moment til I was ready to go.
After dating 2yrs he surprisingly said he wanted to marry me & move abroad with us too! I thought "better the devil you know".
When i went abroad the first few months I was alone but he used to visit as he had to sort out permanent travel documents to enter the country. When he arrived it was bliss the first year but now after I fell pregnant with our child (nearly one year) he has totally changed accuse me of cheating but I have seen text messages of him being promiscuous! He has changed & we argue a lot as he doesn't take me out but goes out with male friends & flirt with other women.
I am at breaking point as the past year hasnt been good & I thought it would be just how it was b4 or better since moving & having a baby of our own but it is the opposite!
I don't want to divorce again (he doesnt either) but wont change & i don't want to stay in an unhappy marriage. I recently cheated on him for the first time (i feel he has got too comfy now he has me where he wants: married & with our child so thinks doesn't have to try anymore) if we can't resolve then I will go back home so children can try bond with biological father as it makes no sense them having NO father figure at all...hubby might decide to return too to bond with his child?? Whatever the outcome we will at least need counseling