Why is their happy people? Why must others judge so quickly? I hate people mostly girls for being such mean creatures in our society I've been struggling my whole life with bad comments as in being bullied mostly over the Internet which I have been called fat, ugly, failure, and many worse things. I've been called a **** my whole life which has effected me very much so... I did find love but I got hurt and ended up trying to commit suicide by taking 50 pills of Zoloft and Ritalin but I did send the people close to me a goodbye text and by sending that text is the reason why I'm still alive if I waited not even 10 more minutes I would of been pronounced dead on 4/20/13 at 1:00 pm. But my friends Morgan and Amanda came threw and saved my life it was good to now some people care even though the boy I put my everything into didn't care about my life which was okay because if j didn't care about my own life then why should he? I ended up at the hospital and they detoxed me and that Sunday morning I was put into a rehab/ mental hospital which was one of the best things I've ever experienced but I was released on that Friday and I come out so positive and great but I really didn't have that much of supportive friends and I never feel that comfortable talking to them so I ended up going back to the boy who broke my heart because he is the only one who knows everything about me because he knows me better then anyone but he started doing the same stuff as before like blowing me off so I ended up relapsing after the wonderful treatment I had I ended up cutting and week after start starving my self until at night I would just pass out. But one thing that helped me get stronger and remember my treatment was warrior by Demetria Lovato she is my inspiration I actually saw her yesterday and balled my eyes out because if it wasn't for her music and her being my role model I probably would have tried killing myself successfully this time. But another thing happened where I found out I was pregnant with   My ex's kid and when I found out which was with him we got back together and ever since then he did change but I ended up having an abortion not my choice I did it for my family to stop pleasing and that choice ruined me I cry every night also part of demis new album the song nightingale reminds me of the child that was taken away. But in advance it made me stronger with my now fiancé because we face the same sadness of our mistake of a decision. I cut tonight because I can't deal with the sadness of this life but I want to be strong... I just need to