I've been battling depression, and recently my boyfriend is too.  
 To make an incredibly long story short, we have been dating over 2 years, and are (or used to be) the best of friends.  I decided to study abroad in New Zealand for a semester and he stayed.
 I experienced culture shock, became depressed.  I've had depression, pretty bad before but dealing with it so far away from everything familiar and safe took it to a new level.
 The distance started getting to my boyfriend and I- we started fighting a lot.  One night he got drunk, cheated on me, did some hardcore drugs and cut himself cause he felt so bad, and then dropped out of college 2 days later.
 He said he has been experiencing bad depression for a few months and he had that big breakdown and now he feels "numb" to all emotion.  Because of everything he has done, I am now increasingly becoming more depressed.  I'm failing all of my classes, can't seem to leave my room, and can't really function besides crying my eyes out all day.  At the same time, I want to support my boyfriend because I care about him more than anything. I just don't know how since he cheated on me and I am so incredibly hurt from that on top of being depressed myself.
 We both very apperently experience depression in 2 different ways.  It seems I feel too much while he becomes numb and feels nothing.  I am still able to connect with people emotionally when I'm depressed and people are the only things that generally can make me happier.  He keeps saying he loves me, yet he can't feel anything for me.  I don't understand this.  To me it sounds like Bullsh** but he gets mad when i say that and says its true.  
 When he is numb and doesn't want to open up or talk...what do I do? We both need 2 opposite things.  I need to talk to feel better and he needs to remain closed up to feel better.  Should we just avoid each other? I feel like 1 person has to win here.  Either I have to suck it up and not talk to him but feel horrible myself, or he has to feel horrible and talk about it.  
 I guess my questions are, can he still love me if he says he doesn't feel anything but blank? What do I do to help him? How do I help him when I am depressed myself? How can I help him to become un-numb?
 I'm still in NZ for another 5 weeks.  So the long distance unfortunately has to continue and it makes it hard to deal.  Any input would be of great help. Thanks