My thirteen year old son has recently become violent towards me. Recently, he hit me several times with a roll of christmas paper, because he wanted me OFF his computer. When I left and went into my bedroom (because I know the scene that will follow) I heard screaming and wailing and then banging. I didnt know it at the time, but he had taken a pair of scissors and stabbed my bedroom door about 7 times. When I looked outside, I saw him in the hall with the scissors held up. I locked the door. The sad thing was....when my husband got home 10 minutes later...he said to me, "Why did you use his computer??? Why did you upset him?"  My son continued to wail and scream in anger. He had also torn down some of my christmas ornaments from the front door. Instead of my husband being firm with him that THIS TIME he was out of control, and he could not do that to his mother....my husband took him out, to visit relatives, and let him bring his computers. You know....to get him out of the house to get him to CALM down. My husband said "he hates you."
 Several days later I finally brought the subject up to my husband....because, he was getting too upset to talk about it. He works on the tracks for the railroad and I didnt want to get him overly upset. I said, "This is very serious. I think that you should at a minimim make him buy spackle with his own money to fix the door....." and my husband said..."Yeah...." but then......"You know what....he hates your ******* guts, and doesnt want to live with you. Okay?? So, can we just try to deal with this as best we can, so we can get through it??" Well, I was shocked. My husband of 19 years and I have gone thru MUCH together and have always worked as a team. Lately tho, the past two years, they push me aside and make me feel like I'm intruding. My son also has OCD, and so my husband tends to not reprimand him for his behaviour, and instead, tries to reason with him. My husband is also very happy that they have a close relationship and I think is afraid of loosing that....but it would at the cost of ME. 
 Basically I have a thirteen year old running my home. As you can see, if I try to punish him, there will be serious repercussions towards ME. I tend to be stricter than my husband. My husband is a yeller, and tends to vascilate back and forth. I tend to me more steady. I dont take any b.s. and my son doesnt like that, obviously, and tends to call his father to complain about ME. 
 Isnt this sick???
 My husband tends to talk to him like this...."I dont know why you are so mean to your mother....and you really shouldnt do that...and say that." I think my husband is acting like a 13 year old. I think he should swing the ax and protect me and make it clear that my son is not to disprespect me. 
 I know counseling is in order...at least for me...I know I cant force the two of them to "realize their errors". I am a christian woman, and dont want to leave. But I wonder....if things dont change, do you think this level of abuse would rise to the level which I would be stupid not to leave?? 
 I think I am more hurt at my husband than my son. What is my husband teaching him?? Also, my husband has sided with him in the past...but never so....blatantly and disrepectfully towards me. Basically we have had a good marriage. He looks after me, makes sure I get my rest, makes sure the car is filled with gas and ok to drive and those types of things. But...I just cant cope with this. I feel so hurt and alone...and parents need to stick together, and he is just not getting that. 
 I was wondering if you could give me your thoughts, and advice...and tell me if any of you have experienced anything like this...where the husband sides with the child??? I am so hurt, so upset, and at my wits end. As a matter of fact, in 19 years of marriage, its the first time I have EVER confided anything at all...or any of this to my own mother. 
 Thanks for listening...