Mine is a long story. I'm male, 37 years ol, 6'2" 265 athletic. Over 1 1/2 years ago, I started getting really dizzy and my doctor put me on  high blood pressure meds which helped greatly. Everything was cool until about 10 months ago when I started to walk kind of unccordinated at times. I never fell or lost my balance, but , somethimg wasn't right. A couple months later I started having vertigo, but onlu when I lay down and turn my head to the right. If I shook my head or turned it to the left it went away. In any event, in never lasted more than a few seconds. My gp sent me to a ent who said he wanted me to have my hearing and balance evaluated. He also said that he couldn't rule out a brain tumor because I have unilateral hearing loss prevalent on my left side. I went to the hearing specialist who diagnosed me with bpv, but said he would recommend a mri to rule out a brain tumor. At this time the vertigo had dissappeared. I need to insert here that over the past three years, I have been under an extreme amount of stress. New baby( with autism concerns that have been dismissed thank GOD), injury to my wife which reduced our income by over one-third, union negotations which put me under criticism 24/7, worrying about a strike etc. I was also diagnosed several years with an anxiety disorder  due to marital problems. Back to the story, I called the mri technicians, who said I should get the results back that day. Well, guess what, they gave me the run around about them having to send the mri results to my doctor who ordered them for review, blah, blah, blah. I had to wait for a week to get the formal results. In the meantime, I am FREAKING OUT, BIG TIME. The results came back OK. The NEXT day I started to have pins and needles in my hands and feet, on and off and in different places in my body as well. I went to my gp who said it was just stress. The symptoms, kept on and I went back to him and he performed a couple of tests for balance and weakness and abnormal reflex and everything was ok. He prescribed B12 and sent me on my way. 
The pins and needles for the most part subsided, and then I started getting rubbery leg kind of feeling in my left leg with a unbalance kind of feeling. I noticed it the day after I had been refinishing a porcelain  tub. It came and went. In the morning it was not there and as the day progressed it would begin and get worse. Then it  began subsiding and has not been there much the past week. Some days I don't have it at all, like today. The leg was never weak, and never was numb or anything---just kind of strange acting. Now I have been having these muscle twitches in different parts of my body especially my left tricep area. They come and go and for no apparent reason. No numbness, weakness, or atrophy. And I'm not more tired than normal for me. I feel like I'm goin nuts, and I went to the emergency room two nights ago for dizziness and a right arm  problem. It got heavy and I felt like I was passing out. They ran blood tests, a CT scan, heart tests, and chest xray-----NORMAL. The doctor gave me a prescription for xanax and told me to go to a neurologist, but that he would hate to see me spend a lot of money and the doctors not be able to give me any concrete answers, and that stress can kill you. HELPME-----Everything from ms, to als, to parkinson's disease has crossed my mind. Anything out of the ordinary now makes me think it's a new problem.