My son's gf is very abusive.
In fact, although my son has never asked her, she has already planned their wedding.
She intends to marry him on February 29th of next year. In some foreign country ( because she knows that I can't fly due to medical reasons...and also knows that I can't afford stuff like that ).
My son says it's not going to happen, but...
 She started abusing both my son ( and us ) almost from the start of their relationship.
She was very subtle at first, but now it's getting heated.
My son has 3 younger brothers. He isn't allowed to see them...because she has 3 younger sisters that are more important. Or whatever her reasoning is.
She's a very jealous person, and is the first to admit it. Most of their fights stem from this fact...or actually they stem from his NOT being a jealous person. She gets jealous over every single thing he does, (  or thinks he does ) and then gets very angry at him for not being jealous when she's out for coffee with her ex, etc.
He isn't allowed to stay at my house to visit his brothers.
When he IS allowed to come over to visit,she sends him texts every few minutes, just to make sure he isn't having fun. 
 Maybe he doesn't actually want to see us...and that's why he allows this crap to happen?
I need to add here, that she IS invited every single time, in hopes that the boys can actually get a chance to visit, and so that her feelings aren't hurt. We've even taken to inviting her dog so that excuse can't be used anymore. We have even sent her formal invitations to BBQs etc...because she blew up at me one time because she wasn't invited to something. I ( wrongly ) assumed that when you ask one half of a couple to come for dinner, that they would both know that they should both come.
I also have to mention that this same girl goes to parties, and travels out of country all the time with her friends...and my son IS expected to stay home while she's gone.  He isn't even allowed to work while she's gone. He HAS to stay home in case she calls.
She's allowed to talk to her ex, but he can't talk to anyone via computer,  even male friends and cousins.
She lives online...and posts crap about my son all the time.
" He's not my boyfriend...he's my girlfriend " and other nasty stuff like that.
 He's only allowed crappy jobs ( in places where her friends work ) so that she can keep an eye on him.
The she whines and snivels because he isn't making $20/hour...you can only make $10 at McDonald's.
For the past 4 years  ( since he's been with her { on and off } ) she has not allowed me to see him for his Birthday. Or other holidays.
In a few days, he will be 25. I would like to take him for lunch.
Last year, I tried to make arrangements, and she came up with all sorts of ideas...but at the last minute, she said that they had plans to go to the bar with friends ( and because I'm a non-drinker, she knew I wouldn't want to go )...the next day my son called and asked why I hadn't done anything for him for his Birthday.
I told him that it was because they had gone to the bar...and he said " Mom..we didn't go to the bar...where did you get that idea? As a matter of fact, no one remembered that it was my Birthday, and I sat alone."
I told him that her and I had discussed it just that morning, and that is what she told me.
He left her and came to live with us for a month...before going back to her.
 The year before that, I had invited them over for a Birthday dinner. She said NO because they were throwing him a party at her mom's house...but she offered us no invitation.
Turns out there was no party...big surprise there.
I have known this girl since she was a baby. Her mother went to school with my younger brother...she was his best friend growing up...so it's not like we don't know each other...and her mom constantly asks me to go out with her ( although we never have ). There are no hard feelings between the families...as far as I know.
This year, I once again started a war ( inadvertently, and unintentionally ) . I sent a text to my son asking which day I could take him for lunch. That way I could see him ( whether early or late ) for his Birthday. He said I could take him on the 7th, but then added that I should ask his GF to make sure it's okay.( My plan was to take just him ( and his 3 year old brother ) out for lunch...without her knowing.)
At first she was okay. She said that she didn't get off until 1, so that it would have to be a late lunch.
I then suggested supper. She said that " might" be okay. (So I thought that maybe we should stick to the late lunch idea in case she had plans) She said she had no plans, but she wasn't sure yet.
I told her that perhaps we should just stick to the late lunch and then go for a quick shopping trip ( which she loves to do ) to buy him a small gift.
That's when she lost it!!
She asked " Why does he get a gift ?" " Why does he get the day off?"
I guessed that she was insinuating that she never got gifts from me...so I nicely ( cautiously ) reminded her that I cleaned her car for her on her Birthday...( taking me the entire day because she insisted that this, that, and the other thing needed cleaning as well. I'm 45...I have a three year old to chase around...I get tired. But, because I know what it's like to have the world's worst MIL, I decided to keep cleaning her car, just to keep the peace.)
She then went on a rampage stating that my son had asked for the day off. She was furious that it was actually given to him. Especially because she has to work until 1 that day. ( she works for her mom...and normally works until 5 )
She demanded to know why he would ask for the day off when he knew full well that she had to work that day. UGH!!
So now my son is mad at me ( or at least not responding to my texts anymore ) and this has guaranteed that I won't be seeing him any time soon...which is very unfortunate, because ALL 4 of my boys have Birthdays this month...and he will not be able to celebrate with them.
So...my question is this?
How do we STOP being a victim of all this abuse?
I know that I can't tell my son to leave her.
My son's abuse is his own problem. 
Do I stop talking to my son? Do I ignore his texts and calls?
IF he wants to be abused, so be it...but how do I prevent my other sons , and myself from feeling the wrath of this girl?
It isn't fair to his brothers at all. They just want to spend time with their big brother...and they KNOW that their big brother sees HER little sisters all the time. In fact they often comment about how her sisters spend the weekends etc at their house...and his brothers ( and I ) have never even seen where they live.
 How would the rest of you deal with this?