Hello - first time I've decided to really try and get help for this issue. I seem to have a crushing case of apathy - I don't seem to care about anything at all, and as time goes on, I get so sick of work or school that I just can't do it anymore.
 I'm 19, I just moved out of my mom's a few months ago with my girlfriend. Everything in that regard is fine - we can get bills paid and everything just fine, so I really wouldn't say it's job/bill related stress.
I have a work-at-home customer support job. It's nice to not have to leave, but working in the same place you sit all day can get kind of strange, especially in terms of knowing what day it is.
In high school, specifically senior year, I experienced very strong feelings akin to what I feel now - the lack of a will to care, or more accurately, a desire to not care. As days went on in senior year, I just got more and more sick of it. Eventually, I just felt what I can only describe as "really not feeling it" when I woke up in the morning, and rather than going to school I'd just go park my car in some random parking lot and hang out there instead of going to school. I ended up having to do summer school to catch up on all the classes I failed. 
The big issue here is that I'm feeling those feelings again with my current job - which I really don't want (the feelings, not the job). I like this job, it pays well, has actual benefits and room to rise up in the ranks. I feel as though my apathy is halting me from performing well at my job, though - I take way too much time off and slack whenever I am working.
I want to get better to improve my performance at work so I can actually advance in the ranks and get better pay and such, to better support myself and my girlfriend.
I suppose my biggest question would be: would any sort of medication help out with this? I'd love to visit a doctor and get prescribed something that could help with this. Not too sure on the idea of visiting a therapist frequently, as I don't have a lot of time off and I like to spend what time off I do have playing video games.
I appreciate any and all advice, and thanks for reading.