hi. m name is sam. im nineteen and ive recently moved in with a friend. shes 25, and we've been friends for years, shes had two or three other people move in with her, and theyve moved out and not spoken to her much after that. 
i do have a good understanding of many mental illnesses due to my family history.
but she says she has personality disorder depression and biapolar, i think its just a excuse for bad behaviour.
she also has autheritus, and blames allot of stuff on that.
i was hoping to list a few things she does and get some advice and opinions on what to do.
firstly, she refuses point blank to do anything around the house. i do the washing, cleaning dusting, floors cooking, and tideying. the only thing that is her job are the dishes, she probably does them once a week, and says the rest of the time that she cant because her autheritus is playing up...but then shes able to play on her computer for hours at a time without a single complaint.
she also gets moody, everytime something dosent go her way, and then when i say something to her she replies with "i have biapolar, get used to it, you dont have to live with it, i do'
she also has a thing for married men, and she's always commenting on our friends fathers, when i tell her of she just ignores it and laughs like its some sort of joke.
she also is extremly drematic, i think its because all she does all day is watch tv, she has no other life other than the one she lives on-screen.
im also concerned because when something happens that dosent live up to her high expectation of life she plans to be depressed.. she says something like 'im going to be depressed for at least three weeks about this' and if its only two weeks and i tell her to get over t she will tell me she still has another week to go.
i think its more put on that actuall depression.
and she constantly talks about commiting suicide, but it seems like its just for attention, like shes fine all week and then we had some people come for dinner, and i think i said something accidently to upset her...witch is almost impossible not to do, but because i did, she went in the kitchen and cut her wrists, and then came and showed us...our friends decided to ignore it, because they thought it was for attention. after they went hom i looked at the cuts, and they wernt deep at all, they were more of a graze, she then told me that she ran it under warm water to make it bleed more and look worse
what do you think i should do?
her mother is verry close to her, and she just says, that shes mentally unwell, am i right in saying its just bad behaviour and attention seeking?
also many of our friends have said she treats me like a maid, and that they wouldnt put up with it, i personally dont want to just leave, because nobody in her life sticks around, i dont wanna be just another on the list, but i dont know what to do. am i fuelling her behaviour? how can i help??
id really appreciate some advice.
please please help..