I have been with my girlfriend for 8 months roughly. When we first started dating I had found out she had slept with about 40+ men before me ( we are 25 ) that instantly caught my attention. early on in our relationship I asked to her to come out to a friends place a couple hours away from our hometown. The night before she was going to her friends party and was going to wait until I was off work to either hangout with me instead or invite me but she ended up going without asking me or telling me and I asked why and she said it was because she had to drive some people places so... the next morning she was totally different.. her body language, her facial expression.. she seemed as if something had happened that was bugging her and would maybe hurt me. I ended up asking her what happened that night and I feel as if another man was hitting on her or had maybe got with her.. she said no, no one was flirting with her.. so I believed her, but a few weeks later I felt I was lied too so I asked again, and more details came out that it was just one guy who had flirted with her and I didn't believe her and then apparently another guy there as well was flirting and one of them lightly touched her side... after admitting the first time I asked that no guys were hitting on her or flirting.. A month or so later I find her texting this guy and I ask her who it is and she said oh it's JUST a friend.. and I had this bad feeling in my heart she was lying.. she eventually told me it was this guy that had raped her before and she was scared so she started talking to him.. it was more than just texting him she was emailing him as well.. I found in her emails that she called me and her a "situation" and that she doesn't know what she is going to do about it... I also found in her facebook .. she was talking to a guy and the guys asked if she was serious with me because her relationship status said in a relationship and she said no we aren't serious and he asked me to put it on facebook, months later I find she was talking to some guy she "met" on kijiji and that they were JUST friends even though they hadn't met.. I found an email stating that me and her were not together and that it ended a long time ago.... She tries to make excuses like she didn't want them knowing her life so she told them lies.. yet called them friends.. Anyway... I feel lied to and cheated on. Anyone have some opinions.. I told her if she loved me and that if she wanted these men to not know or to go away that she would tell them she was in a relationship with me..