I had previously posted on this website about my mother's odd behavior. I think she has some sort of personality disorder. She was abusive and neglectful growing up, stopped drinking 7 years ago though, but still displays odd behavior. She shares a birthday with my sister, which is also on Mother's day sometimes. Last year, she had to share the spotlight with all the aunts and grandmother's at a luncheon. We had gotten her and my sister a birthday cake and proceeded to sing happy birthday after lunch. Upon finishing, she told the room full of 15 family members to start again and wait while she got her video camera. She pointed the camera at herself and forced us to repeat happy birthday. She sang loudly along and emphasized the "happy birthday to ME" part while smiling into her camera. It was painfully embarassing. 
I am thinking about having a small wedding soon, but when I start thinking about her being there and the possible antics she might display, I chicken out. I can't bring myself to go through with it. She still gives my sister grief for not honoring her enough at her wedding 6 years ago. She ruined my highschool graduation because she felt her ex-father in-law was snubbing her. She is always expecting grand displays of honor from people, yet she is lucky to even have the relationships she has. If things don't go her way, she will scream and yell at people like a bully. My poor 85 year old grandmother is usually her target. 
I am afraid she'll grab the microphone at my wedding and give a speech about her past alcoholism and our strained relationship. If given the spotlight, she will abuse it. She'd talk until someone cut her off, then she'd get mad. She has no idea what it means to respect others, its all about her. I want to have a suite reserved for me and my girlfriends to prepare for the ceremony, but I know she will crash it, then I'll have to be a total a-hole because I will make her leave. Then she'd spend the rest of my wedding crying, and she may talk about my abuse of her in her wedding speech. 
Perhaps I am worried for nothing, but I've seen her in action MANY times. She doesn't understand her role as my mother and never did. I do not want to be friends, I do not want her to come to my bachelorette party, but she is so desperate to be my friend, she would find out where we were going and show up. Last week she went to a bar I go to and asked everyone if they knew me and introduced herself. Last year  she tried to get me back in touch with an ex-boyfriend from 7 years ago who was an alcoholic and later a drug addict. She hoped that perhaps I would leave my wonderful fiance(who doesn't have addiction issues) for the addict she can relate to. 
I want to have wedding so bad, but I am too scared. I am a very sensitive person and I can't stand socially innapropriate behavior. I am 33 years old and she embarasses me just as much as she did when I was a teenager. My fiance is very publicly embarrassed by her as well. He is fine if we just elope but I'd really like to celebrate with my friends.  Talking to her about it beforehand won't help, she has a one track mind. When she goes into manic mode, nothing stops her. She will literally tell you that it is her life and she will do whatever she wants. 
What can I do?
any advice?