First a little history..... I started taking paxil after I had gone thru a abusive marriage. I was forced to leave him, and raise my Daughter on my own with no money, and no education. I was very scarred and a little depressed, So  I went to my Dr to see what I could do about it. She put me on antidepressants, which made me dizzy, so she had me stopped them, and  put me on Paxil. 
 I took paxil, for 18 years, and stopped taking it 47 days ago. I had a grand mal seizure shortly after upping my dose of paxil, 15 years ago ( If I remember correctly, I went from 20 mgs to 40 mgs, and then had a full seizure) After my seizure,  The dr. never told me that it was from taking a higher dose of paxil. She just sent me to a neurologist, who  put me on seizure meds. The seizure meds worked to get rid of the seizures for a long time, in till I hit perimenopause, and then I started having  simple partial seizures again.  This went on for a couple years, and the drs just kept trying to give me different levels of lamictal to stop the Aura feelings, but it never stopped. THey just got worse.  Once I found out that my seizures were probably being caused from the paxil, in the first place. (A few months ago)  I  tapered down my seizure meds, and stopped taking them, then I stopped the paxil. I went thru a pretty bad withdrawal getting off the Lamictal as well. Pain, somnolence,  fuzzy thinking, sleep problems, hot and cold flashes, etc.   I don't think it was over before I stopped the paxil. But I was tired of having seizures.
 Now, for the last 6 and a half weeks,  I have been going thru horrible anxiety, strange,obsessive thoughts that make me feel out of control, and out of my mind, heart palpitations, itching, weakness, gagging, some diarrhea, dry mouth,  (I also had a bladder infection at one point) mood swings, like anger, sadness, and worst of all not sleeping right. I wake up every day exhausted, with my heart pounding feeling like this is never  going to end. 
MY QUESTIONS ARE:  When is this going to end?  Am  I ever going to feel normal again? I don't want to give up, but I need to know how much longer this will last.  And do people come back after taking these prescriptions for almost half their lives? THank you, for any input. I am loosing my courage.