Well this is not where i ws supposed to be cheking out. A part of me is not able to accept that a person like me can actually be writing this . But m scared i may be depressed. And since dis was one thing I was always scared of. I have lived with a bipolar schizophrenic mom and at that moment itself i sweared to myself that i wont ever be like her when i grow but i m petrified this is me. Ask anybody in my friends about me and dey would all swear that they havn't seen a happy-go-lucky as me ! I am like role model to them Poeple come to me to share their problems like naturally . I love it so much when i m so loved .There are so many people who consider me their bestest of frind but as for me i dont trust upon anybody .I know i would never give a wrong advice to anybody because that philanthropist inside me is very evident and eager! But for me m so alone and again that is not a problem at all becuase i have trained myself to be so .To accept that this world isnt worth trusting and m so scared of entring into any relationship. I just cant take that chnace of getting cheated upon . And anyways it does not bother me also . I m so talented by gods grace so gud at almost everything that my parenst were always sure of my awesome career and even i ws sure of it .BUT I DONT UNDERSTAND SUDENLY WHAT HAPPENED to me. i started staying sad for no reason in the world. i often have  crying pangs followed by quiet days for about an year but suddenly now 2.5 months i have been sad and depressed. I know i have friends that are the bestest in the world and its no tlike dont care enough for them but i take no effort of making a call to them or simply messaging people. And everybody thinks m egoistic except my frinds ..who are always trying to figure out if anything is wrong with me .But the truth is that i think there is nothing so important to talk about. Everytime i cant think of anything to talk about with people.At first i thought its just that since m quite an introvert so i do not like indulging in small talk ...but i just dont have anything to talk about ..completely blank and thereforre m kinda scared and indifferent to making a call to my frinds or family. I can stay silent nowadays for like eternity and wont mind at all if i was totally blocked out of this world.Sometimes i just think how nice it would to become a stranger to everybody around or to simply dissapper from this world to an altogether different place.
 I was 12 when i saw my mom acting weird and shouting and shutting herself to the world for weeks just crying and not talking  and cursing me and fighting with me for no reason for like hours. Entire nights she would wake me up and sit questioning stuff like why u did this to me ? why did u hurt my ego (hurting her ego meant not wearing clothes she wanted me to wear...yea..i knw crap!). I didnt knw at first what to do and could not understand. My Dad supported me in this. Whenever he got out she would come to beat me up .Not like she didn't love me when was ok..sh did her best to make me talented and hardwoking. But her attacks were more like a nightmare. She would not cook  and this continued like for the next 8 years of my life. But i handled that quite nicely .I pulled myself together .Took to spiritual shelter and my God did not fail me. Although i could see a low in my performance but i never lost hope and read a lot of self help articles and put on cover of happiness on my self. And continuously counted my blessings and became a cheerful person. But then suddenly i now realize that UR LYF IS ALREADY AMISS AND A MESS WHEN ALL U HAVE TO DO IS KEEP TELLING URSELF TO BE-POSTIVE. And all mu hopes have shattered to the ground. I have a lot to achieve i have big dreams for myself and my career but now i just cant study. I have become so indifferent to th eworld around me. And use sleep as a shield because i think sleep is the best way to cut out the crap from ur messed up life. I have helped so many people to battle their problems telling evrybody not to lose hope and here i am ..all lost and apathetic. I love to study but i am unable to do that . i dont do anything at all .I dont even pursue my hobbies. watching movies does not ineterst me any longer. I was so full of life that people would tell me that we love spending time with cz ur so fun loving and chirpy.But I am afraid M LOSING MYSELF. And at this point of time no point of cajoling is helping me . Iam just plain apathetic and crying and not speaking and just sleeping ad worrying about my career.