This is not a question, yet advice to all who are wanting more information about BPD (Borderline Personality Disorder). I have read several posts on here and there are so many young people desperately seeking information trying to figure out what is wrong with them and why they do, say, and think the way they do. I answered a few and then I thought I should just post one to all out there trying to figure things out. I felt immidiate relief once I picked up a few books on the matter of BPD. "I hate you, Don't leave me!" Is a REALLY great informative book. Not only for the person living with BPD but also for loved ones of people going through this with them. "Sometimes I act Crazy" is also an awesome book that I am currently reading. Its sort of an update from the other book. (Both written by the same authors: Jerold J. Kreismann M.D. & Hal Straus) Though you can never be completely sure until you seek medical advice from a certified professional, this brings insight to many things you may be experiencing and may help in your recovery/therapy. This is commonly misdiagnosed as BiPolar, Generalized anxiety disorder, ADD/ADHD, etc. Not to say you could have all of the above as well as it is often over looked or even purposely left off your diagnosis list. 
Interesting fact: 
"Many clinicians (medical professionals) hesitate to diagnose BPD because of its stigma within the profession. Among many professionals, borderline patients are the most dreaded. Treatment requires much patients, and, even more, much time, which in today's climate, often is not adequately recognized or reimbursed. Thus many patients with the BPD diagnosis are unable to engage capable clinitians willing to accept them in treatment." (From the book: "Sometimes I act Crazy" Living with Borderline Personality Disorder- Jerold J. Kreismann M.D. & Hal Straus- pg. 11) 
How sad but true this statement is. If the professionals think it is difficult treating us, just imagine for a second how difficult this is to LIVE with and have. We need more awareness on this physically, mentally and emotionally painful illness. Just because I have BPD doesn't mean I don't know what I am talking about and don't want to do everything I can to recover or treat my illness. For the last 6 years I have been dedicated to shining a light on this subject and bring hope to all out there who suffer. I promise, you are not alone!!! Hope this helps!