Hi everyone-I have read this forum for a long time but have been to afraid to post because of the responses that I might get but the situation is getting pretty bad and I need some input really badly so here goes:  I have been married fourteen years to a man that I met at a very controlling legalistic church. I was 26, he was 32 and we fell in love (or I thought) and right away had three beautiful boys. After my kids were born I started questioning the place we attended church. We both had bad family of origins ( my husband was molested by his uncle for four years and my Mom was an alcoholic and my Dad cheated). I began therapy seven years after we married which my husband was angry at me for bc it was against the church, then everything I started doing was against the church or  his authority.he started pushing me or blocking me in the doorway once in a while if we fought. As I did more therapy I started to go to another church and exercise and I took medication for depression. He fought this too and was angry and told me that I wasn't supposed to change and that I tricked him. Things finally erupted last winter and he took a swing at me and punched me in the arm. I have Fybromyalgia and two ruptured discs. I am on medication for these things. I took the kids and left him and he filed for custody and took the kids away from me. So much has happened since then I can't write it all down, I went back to him after all this stuff that happened bc he promised to change and now I feel like an idiot and I don't know what to do. I don't think he is ever going to hit me again. I just feel like he has to make everything my fault all the time. He has completely isolated me from everyone. I feel so alone and cut off. I feel so hopeless. He is so controlling and I have the overwhelming feeling of guilt about my kids that they need a father and if I divorce their Dad I will go to hell. I don't know what to do, but every day I get sicker and sicker and more run down bc of this trap I am in. I need some one to send me a life preserver or something.
 Does any one get this?
 Inga