I would appreciate any constructive, practical suggestions, insights or shared experiences regarding an extremely difficult family (mainly mother) situation. I have, however, received more criticism that I can take and although you don't know me (!) all my previous partners and current good friends say the things that have been said do not match with who I am at all. I agree with my friends (on a good day) but some how the negatives persist niggling away in the back of my mind in the voice of my mother and family criticising me. So although I really do do do want to move on i know that in order to do this I need honesty and help which has the tone of compassion not judgement or blame (I literally cannot take any more of that). I don't want to label anyone/anything (or myself) but the more i read, it scarily seems like what i've experienced through childhood and still now is (emotional) abuse. There was an awareness meeting with child protection specialists recently at work and when they described the definition of 'emotional abuse' and burning hot tears involuntarily rolled down my cheeks on to the table, luckily noone noticed) I don't know where to begin so maybe rather than go into who, when, why, how it is just better to say that I find my mother has and does have an extremely negative affect on me. When I speak to her on the phone, see her handwriting on any mail I go cold and begin to feel panicky and unwell. We haven't seen each other in 3/4 years and barely communicate now but when we do she is very angry and throws all blame at me. When we communicate of any level (postcard/card/email/letter/by phone) I feel quite unwell, confused and sick and it literally takes weeks to get over that. I recently asked her on the phone what I have done that is so bad (to blame me for EVERY thing, criticise any genuine efforts I make/have made or made her not visit in 6 years or ever phone) and she wouldn't tell me so I got worried. To my knowledge I had always been the most diligent, thoughtful, considerate daughter I possibly could be but when pressed she finally screamed at me that what I've done is lots of 'pissy little ****** things that don't even matter'. My father defends her with his life either by blaming me 'you have destroyed your mother' or by saying nothing, I literally never hear from him. In March my partner wrote to my father by email seeing what pain i am in asking why he never contacts me, my father acknowledged this email but never actually replied. Last year my partner phoned my father to introduce himself (we've been together 18months and he's never met my parents/family) and during this conversation my father said about me that i've always been 'too good, too nice'. I know by her own admission that my mother has manipulated and lied to my brother and sister and consequently they have chosen her side and I do not hear from them and if i do they blame me. ANY way, the point is I don't have contact now. I have acknowledged birthdays, Christmas but this year not heard from them. You'd think perhaps that this would be/feel like a blessed relief but it's actually left me feeling deeply sad, a pain I feel on a daily basis which I don't know how to shift. I have spent £1000's on counselling, been to see a life coach, hypnotherapist and read a lot of pyschology books and although my understanding is better now the pain i feel is not. I blame myself, I feel ashamed, embarrassed, sick. I feel rejected and like an orphan, discarded. I don't know how to move on but need to and want to as this is literally ruining my life, hurting and chewing me up more and more and affecting my relationship/friendships. Any suggestions? Thanks.