What is anger? 
 Simply put, anger is an emotion like all other emotions. Emotions are signposts into our internal structure. It’s simply something we feel.
.....
Act as if what you do 
makes a difference. 
It does.  - William James
...............
 How do we become angry?
 There is a direct and an indirect process of becoming angry. If we are referring to anger as an emotion like sadness, hurt, or joy, anger is simply a direct feeling response. So something happens, and we may react to it with feeling hurt, angry, or some other emotion. 
 However, anger can also be a secondary emotion. Many people (particularly males) are trained to accept the feeling of anger, but not to accept the feelings that may have preceded it; such as feelings of hurt, fear, or vulnerability. Sometimes when we feel hurt or vulnerable, we immediately jump to anger because that’s more acceptable to us. In this context, it becomes a secondary emotion, it’s the feeling we can tolerate rather than such feelings as hurt or vulnerability.
  When does anger become unhealthy? How do I know?
 Anger is unhealthy when it gets in the way of your functioning or your relationships; if anger is causing you to loose friends, put your job in jeopardy, if people complain to you about your anger, if you hear people talking about you having a bad temper. These are signs that your anger is getting in your way, and therefore it’s unhealthy.
  Does anger have a neurological basis? Is it hereditary?
 No, anger doesn’t have a neurological basis any more than any other feeling. And no, it isn’t hereditary. There are people who suffer from a certain kind of illness called intermittent explosive disorder. This illness results in anger being used as a secondary emotion, prompting an outbreak of rage, smashing things, yelling at people and so forth. There may be some hereditary basis to this, but there is no clear evidence at the present.
 For further reading, go to the following site:
 http://www.allaboutcounseling.com/anger.htm
 Disclaimer:  I have no association with the above site.  Just interested in dealing with anger issues myself & came across the site.