Hi guys, I'm new to the web. I spend days , months now years ,on thinking how to stop my husband from yelling , scaring me at first and now ,our baby. Since we met he has anger  issues. He gets angry very easy and angry to the point he's throwing , breaking things around the house and angry for a little things like: he finds a hair on the table but he ,him self cutting his nails there . He throwing things at me , giving me bruises.Than, I run to bedroom lock my self there to keep safe , he breaks the door mostly pulling me out to listen his lessons how I always making him angry and after hours he acts like nothing happen and day after he's gonna tell me he loves me or demanding to listen his speech -- AGAIN/ about  how I should behave and how I -make him angry.
I used to work for 14 yrs as a manager at big company but once we have a baby we decided , it's better for baby to me to stay home.I quit. I'm 40 in feb 18. I love my life and my baby, but after those constant terror episodes I can't say that I love my husband anymore. I started to think as my husband keeps telling me -its my fault and I do, make him angry. But how can I be constantly attacked and blamed for his lack of anger control? I called once cops coz he was so crazy ,throwing things at home , my baby was so scared and cried , I was shaking because I was so scared of him . He turned to be so much worse! He want to kill me! Called me u f** B** how dare u ...called me so many names that I just can't say. He das that, each time we argue. He calls me names that I'm less than zero for him. My baby is the most precious for me. My son is 9 mo. the cuties baby ever ,always smiling but do wake up crying sometimes .I believe I know why. Because he get to witness my husband craziness . How do I stop this constant terror  ? I don't know if I'm ready to leave , but I did say that, to my husband that I can't take it anymore. I want him to take anger management classes but in his opinion I am the one who's making him angry and I have problem / not him.Whatever bad happening , it's always my fault. Days after  ,he acting like nothing happen . He's gonna buy me expensive things, take to restaurant tell me ,he loves me, until I say or do things that are not his way. He's  constantly keeps telling me how I should say things to him to ,not make him angry. But how I should know what words makes him angry?! Im scared to open my month.