My 18 month old nephew died unexpectedly in his sleep nearly 3 months ago (my husbands brothers son).  It has absolutely devastated the whole family - nothing is ever going to be the same again.
 The reason I'm posting this is because I have gotten the vibe off quite a few people that I shouldn't have taken his death as hard as I have, the reason being that I am not his parent, sibling, grandparent or even a blood relative.  I don't really know what to do - I love him so much and I can't show that I miss him with all my being unless I'm alone or just with my husband.  I feel like I don't fit in, like I don't have a category in a sense, when it comes to my grief.
 I think that aunts/uncles are forgotten when it comes to grieving and its not fair - its even worse for us who are married into a family and are not blood related to the deceased, but still watched them grow up, looked after them and saw them as their own children.
 I have spoken about this to my husband, but not in detail - he is very private and I think he prefers it that his grieving process is forgotten about by others, but I can't let it go and I don't know why.  Its not fair.  I want to talk about my nephew, but when I bring him up in conversation its like nobody wants to know.  My own family have told me that I must let him go, that he wasn't my son - I am aware that he wasn't my son but I don't feel ready to let him go yet!  It hasn't even fully registered in my mind that he's actually gone - how can I let him go?
 My relationship with my nephews mother has really changed since he died - we used to be the best of friends but now I feel like she doesn't like me.  I don't know why.  Around the time he died, a lot of people mentioned it on their Facebook status', etc. and she would always comment on everybody's posts except for mine - I know this seems a bit stalker-ish for me to notice but I did (she still does it now) and it is really painful for me.  Its like I'm grieving for the lost friendship too.  If I text her/send her a message, most of the time she won't even reply - she NEVER did that before he died.  I don't understand why she doesn't like me anymore.  It wouldn't bother me so much if she did it with everyone else but she only does it to me - I see her replying to everyone elses posts.  Even though I know she doesn't like me anymore I can't stop trying to be her friend again - I shouldn't bother with her anymore but I can't help it.
 I have changed so much in these past few months - I've put weight on, become so lazy and feel disgusted with myself.  I study and work, but I can't bring myself to get out of bed for either.  I am failing with my studies and only work one day a week now (and I struggle with that).  I sleep all the time.  I'm surprised at how my husband puts up with me.  He started suffering from anxiety attacks after our nephew died - he finds it hard to get out of bed for work too.....Neither of us leave our house for anything other than work.  We have both turned into hermits - locked away from the rest of the world.  My husbands family have been complaining that we never visit them but my husband is scared to leave the house because of his panic attacks.
 Life isn't worth living anymore.