Sorry for my writing, I can write, I just literally did this in 5 minutes, I was in a rush.   
Also, i didnt know where else to post this.  
 I am a 20 year old college girl.  I have a lot of trouble communicating to people.  I feel like I can’t talk.  I am an extremely nervous, insecure, not confident, shy girl and its so hard for me to express myself.  What I mean by is this..
I feel like my use of grammar and word choice is not good.  Sometimes when I talk to people, I get so nervous that my use of grammar, word choice is not correct and that when I speak my words sound broken and unclear.  Its sounds sometimes like a stutter or a mumble.  I know that im doing this because im so nervous.  You cant talk while your in fear and I realize this, but I don’t know how to stop it. And I realize that in order to be better at this, I need to practice talking more but its so hard.  
I also feel like just growing up not having many friends and not being involved with school activities has triggered this in a way.  I never got out there when I was a kid.  I never really talked to people, been in a position where I had to talk socially or professionally.  I always managed to escape that stuff.  I never went on job interviews in high school, etc. Do you know what im saying?  I do work at a CVS convience store, but the only interaction with people really is just “hi how are you” and telling them the total price,  things like that.  I never have one on one personal conversations with them.  
As I grow older, I have become aware of this. Im in college and I see my problems communication with people.  I feel like my mind is so disorganized, unclear, and disoriented.  Im only comfortable talking in short fragments, never a real detailed conversation.  Only answering questions etc.  When I try to tell a story, I just literally just draw a blank and cant continue.  I just have this blank stare on my face.  I always want to avoid talking to people and social situations because its so ackward for me.  
I am a shy person but its not even the shyness that’s making me not want to talk to people and hang out with friends but its because I have poor communication, my nervousness.  That is why I try to avoid certain situations. Its embarrassing and I hate it.  My nervousness is causing me to not speak properly and I don’t know what to do.  Im so scared.  im scared that ill never be successful with jobs because of this problem.  I want to change it so bad, but its so hard.  I literally feel so bad that I don’t want to live anymore.  Whats the point if you cant talk right? 
I want to be a confident person, how do I change this?  I know in order to speak well is if you practice it and become confident and not be in fear.  Please help.