I have had hoarseness of varying degrees since 9/2012, when I was hospitalized with pneumonia. I was subsequently hospitalized in 12/12, 1/13, and 6/13 with pneumonia also. During the 1/13 hospitalization, they finally discovered that I had chlamydia pneumoniae and said it was likely to have been the cause of earlier episodes of pneumonia. I had a horrible, dry, hacking cough that did finally improve about mid-February. My voice improved somewhat, though by the end of the day people could barely understand me. I also have a 15 yr hx of GERD and a 20 yr pack hx. I stopped smoking 8/2001. 
 The hoarseness worsened around June/July, and then significantly worsened in mid-September. Some days it's better, some worse, but always hoarse and always worse after talking for a few hours (I am in a profession which requires a great deal of speaking). I am constantly clearing my throat and often have a tickling in my throat which leads to coughing. For the last month, I have had an occasional mild burning sensation on the left side of my throat/left ear. Over the last few days it has become almost constant. 
 I was finally able to see an ENT a couple weeks ago. He did a flexible nasal laryngoscopy and found a lesion on my left vocal cord. He said that just by looking at it, he feels there is a greater than 50% chance of cancer. I am awaiting CT results and will likely have a biopsy within two weeks. 
 I was rather shocked when he said greater than 50% chance of cancer just by looking. With my history (and the fact that the primary I had been seeing told me the hoarseness was due to the C. Pneumoniae, cough, and then allergies!), I was thinking more along the lines of a granuloma. Granted, the lesion is on the anterior portion of the cord, not, from what I've researched, the typical posterior portion. 
 I will have an appointment with the ENT to review the CT results and further plans later this week. I am wondering if anyone can suggest further reading/research I can do, questions I need to ask the doctor, and any other information that may help me. 
 Thank you in advance for your help.