My mother has been battering me for the past 6 years for the money that they spent on my education in the US. My (mother's brother)uncle and aunt who are US Citizens physically and mentally abused me for 3 years while I was a graduate student. I have been a first class student throughtout my engineering in India and passed out with a 3.3 GPA from graduate school in the US. This despite my illness and antibiotic abuse for 4 years for acne during my teens. I  am 34 years old, single and have been working in Software. 
 My mother's brother was extemely abusive for 3 years in the US. I used visit him in his office twice a week where we would have conversations for hours. By the end of graduate school, my uncle started controlling me emotionally and physically and financially. Somehow he acquired so much control over my mind and body. He used to take to visit his wife and son some weekends, when my aunt would verbally abuse me and my mother and my family at her home. She would even visit me sometimes in my on-campus apartment and drive me around in the car along with her son and take out her rage on me and my mother. At times I would get a splitting headache after her tantrums for an hour in her car and would go back to my apartment and suffer for a week. She would even control the food that I ate. My uncle made sure that I had no money for my rent and even basic needs. 
 He made sure that my parents paid my tuition from India. He would pay for my tuition and then ask my parents to transsfer the money to his account. He badmouthed about me to all my relatives in India during his annual visits and spread  bad things about me to my parents, sister and my relatives. He would tell them that I was no good as a student, that I was useless and that I did not want to work and did not have the capacity to work. All this while I was slogging day in and day out to earn my degree while working on-campus jobs to pay for my rent and living expenses. My uncle even made me work as a waitress in an Indian restaurant. He and my aunt made sure thatI had no money to buy decent clothes, that I had no freedom to date a guy. They made me completely dependent on them so they could control every aspect of my life at the age of 24. My uncle made sure that I not become financially independent. He used physically, mentally and verbally abused me for 3 years in the University town, all the time convincing me that it was "unconditional love" and after my graduation he along with my parents sent me to live with my aunt in another town in Atlanta. He made me move around from one apartment to another and made sure I never found a job in the US. He made me run on the streets of Atlanta in the biting cold in the bus and the train without a jacket on. He had so much control over me just over email. I was a pawn in his hands. I still feel he controls my life behind the shadows. 
 He trapped me in his "unconditional love" and then he would use that to verbally, mentally and physically abuse me. After 8 months of abuse on the streets of Atlanta, he sent me back to my parents house in Bangalore at 12 AM in the night without even informing my parents. My parents were shocked to find me home without prior information in the middle of the night at  1 AM IST. 
 My uncle and aunt used my parents money for their university, all the time they were abusing me and my parents were being brainswashed against me in India during my uncle's visits every six months. The morning after I came home my mother and sister started hitting me and yelling at me that I had used up their life savings. Even after 3 months in Bangalore, my uncle was still controlling me over email and not allowing me to work. After 3 months he sent me to another city in India to work for a meagre sum of 7500Rs. AT that time he was in Delhi and he was still controlling me over email making me run and walk on the streets of Pune while I was being harassed and abused in the company that hired me. He convinced my mother to put pressure on me to not leave my job. So he could harass me over email. He is some kind of a psychopath who derives pleasure in seeing my mother and me sufferring. He has some kind of a revenge in his heart against me and my mother. His wife has always hated my mother and has some kind of a grudge against us both. She cannot see both of us successful and happy.
 He convinced me that he had "unconditional love" for me and that he was like my parent. Using that as a pretext he abused, harassed and manipulated every aspect of my life.
 I ran away to the United States from Pune as I was afraid that my uncle intended to get me killed in Pune. As I was without a visa, they caught me and threw me into detention for 8 months. During the 8 months, the guards would put me through hell, by banging the cell door hard on me at nights, by locking me up for days together providing food and water, every time I screamed at the guard, they would come to my cell and bang the door on me. They would sometimes strip me naked and put me on a suicide pact. I was yelled at, physically and mentally abused for 8 months and then deported to India in a vegetative state.
 3 months later I found a job in a software company in Bangalore. My parenst took me back to their home, during 3 years of my work experience i regained some part of my health that I had lost in detention in the US, began doing well at my job, began liking my job.
How to deal with all this crap for the rest of my life? At this point, I am extremely tired emotionally because of my abusive mother and relatives.
 I am single and have never dated or married or had sex with a man. My relatives have been extremely manipulative and controlling. I am afraid to get into a relationship with a man due to fear of abuse.
 I dont trust anyone.