Hello everyone. I'm 31, turning 32 in April, and had a fainting/seizure episode back in September of 2015. Before the episode I was a generally healthy, happy guy. I've been shaken up ever since. Fears of having a heart issue, mainly. 
 I became VERY depressed following the episode. I work from home as a graphic artist. Shortly after this happened, I stopped taking on new clients. I'm making myself much worse as my depression keeps me in bed most days. I live in a very isolated place, 45 minutes from the nearest city. Since about October, I've been in bed nearly every day all day except to get up to eat or use the bathroom. I barely eat. Eating seems to upset my stomach. I've lost almost 50lbs because of it. I cry almost every day. I've never been a weepy person. I've never had any worry about my health either until this happened. I'm becoming terribly deconditioned. I went to the grocery store with my wife yesterday and was only there for about an hour. By the end of the visit my heart was racing, I was sweating a little, and just felt tired. I had terrible heart palpitations as well. I've had them for about a year now on and off but they've been much more persistent recently. 
 I have visited my GP several times, and was referred to a cardiologist and a neurologist too. All of my tests have been normal other than mild left ventricular hypertrophy on my echocardiogram (presumably from unchecked high blood pressure which seems under control currently). I had a tilt table test that showed I have orthostatic hypotension, but I only became symptomatic after the staff administered nitroglycerine to try and recreate my fainting spell. 
 I'm also being seen by a psychiatrist and therapist for my depression and anxiety. I was diagnosed with clinical depression, and generalized anxiety disorder. SSRIs have been effective but my body doesn't tolerate the side effects. The only thing that I can tolerate has been Remeron. It helps, but minimally. 
 This has been the most trying time of my life and it's taking a huge toll on my body and mind. Has anyone else been so bad off they haven't been able to get out of bed for an extended period of time? What effects did it have on your body? I'm severely deconditioned and can't be on my feet long before having to rest, which is freaking me out that much more. I wasn't in great shape before this all happened. I was around 250, but never had a lack of energy or stamina like I do now. Has anyone here gone through a similar time and come out on the other side? I know that this is just a bump in the road and I'll hopefully pull through soon. I'm just looking for some support I guess. All anyone is doing on this forum I guess. Thanks so much in advance for the replies.