To start this off I am 20 years old, I still live with my mom or I used to. I have been riding dirt bikes and atv's almost all my life, I have a motorcycle license and recently sold my old one, I have been telling my mom I'm going to buy another one for the past month, mind you I kind of got bored riding motorcycles so that's why I sold my last one but realized I can make money off of them. My mom has been threatening me that if she see the bike she will burn it, break it, sell it without me knowing, etc... I didn't take her serious because she would say that about my other bike and never did anything about it. when I bought it I drove it to my grandmothers to hide it because she's been threatening to bash my car and my friends car in with a bat, when I get home she was screaming at the top of her lungs "either give me the f***ing money or the keys right now!" over and over, I finally gave in and gave her my key but when she saw the bike she started hitting it and had made scratches and dents all over the gas tank. The next day she threatened that I need to give her my title which is still under my friends name or she's calling my grandfather, when I didn't give it to her she went on another screaming streak at 11pm and made me take my bike to her house so that she can put it in a storage till I give her the title. I gave in because my grandma was having a hard time breathing and I was scared for her. I have never seen her get so out of control in my life, she needs help. she's a self medicated person and claims she drinks when she's angry, which means its all the time because she's always arguing with her disrespecting boyfriend who's ten years younger and doesn't care about anyone but himself, she's very controlling, insecure, and practically a stocker she has a tracking thing on my phone to let her know where I am ever hour of the day and when her boyfriend goes out to play basketball she sneaks over to a park to keep an eye on him. she doesn't see then pain she causes me and my sister by being with this low life. I understand she scared if I hurt or kill myself on the motorcycle but I rarely drive it and when I do its at normal speeds I never go faster then the speed limit because I've seen friends seriously hurt from going extremely fast. I don't know what to do anymore it's heartbreaking because I had to leave my house do to her behavior I've been living with my grandparents and girlfriend ever since this issue. I've tried talking to her and explaining that I only buy bikes to fix and sell for more because I don't have a job and this is the fastest and easiest way to make money at the moment especially since I go to college. She's very closed minded and doesn't want to hear anything except her own voice in her mind I drive my bike at 1000 miles an hour she exaggerates how fast my bike is and how many times I ride it. I don't know what to do anymore I'm thinking of doing and involuntary commitment I think she seriously needs help my family agree with my decision, I don't want it to come to me calling the cops on her, she already has a bike that doesn't belong to her and if my friend decides, he can call the cops to make her give him the bike, she expects me to hand her the money that was spent on the bike that I had saved for that reason she says she will put it in a trust account as long as her name is on the account, I have had past experiences where she takes money out of my account and never pays me back I don't want her on the account but her excuse is so there is no way I can take out the money so I can buy another bike. is there any advise or help so that I can deal with this