I left my ex-husband,together for 7 years and married for 3 years, for another man. We have 1 child together and we worked at the same place, but in different areas, i fell in love with one of my co-workers and left my ex-husband for him. Me and my ex-husband had alot of problems, he never beat on me or our kid, but never showed any kind of emotion towards me like i needed, only when he wanted something. Sex was only when he felt like it. And never pationate sex, just quicky sex. He had a gambling problem and its only gotten worse. I tried talking to him about how i felt and he never cared. He always brushed me off. He treated me like a child. I guess because i met him when i was 14 and started dating when i was 15. he is 7yrs older and kind of treated me like his daughter sometimes. Dont get me wrong we had fun and life was good for a little while. But i started to hate him, we always faught, i never was right in his eyes, and he always made me feel like dirt. I met someone that had the same dreams i did and was very pationate and all that good stuff... i fell head over hills for him. So i left my ex-husband, and it was a horrbile divorce. He found out about the guy i had been talking to and i know it hurt him. I feal so horrible about how it went down. Just so you know i never touched the guy while i was with my ex-husband. I did have conversations with him that i shouldnt have, but never touched him. The day i left my ex-husband i went straight to the guy im with now. I ended getting pregnate about 5 weeks after leaving my ex-husband by this other man. This other man is now my fiance' and we have one kid together. I love him alot, but i have so much hurt from the divorce and how it all went down, and what i did to my ex, that i feel like screaming sometimes. Im not a person to hurt anyone, and i did. Even though we were falling apart i should have never talked to another man, and never should went to my fiance while i was still married but seperated. I cant talk to anyone about this. What do i do? I am ate up with guilt and some regret and in a relationship now with another child. Do you think my first son will hate me for leaving his dad the way i did? im sure he will find out the story eventually, he is only 4 now. I feel like my fiance and i relationship started off wrong and thats why we have the problems we have. When he got with me his Ex-wife jerked his 8yr old daughter away because she was one of those jealous ex wifes. They had been divorced for 8 years and she still did that. Ever since then him and his daughters relationship has suffered, and its all because i came into his life. I think he blams me, even though he says he dont. He get real depressed over it and i feel horrible cause i cant do anything. My fiance is a very moody person and gives me the cold shoulder alot and gets me real depressed. i guess im writing this whole story for some advice. What do i do? how do i deal with all these emotions i have inside about the past and now. It has been 2 and a half years since i left me ex and i am still ate up over it. he was my best friend and one point, and my life ended up life some dam tv show. How did this happen? im not this kind of person? what will my babies think of me? what does god think of me????????? what do i do? 
 ......i guess what makes things worse is when the day i left him was probably one of our better days. We werent fighting at the time. i just thought about everything that happend all all our fights and decided i was done and wanted to be with the other guy. Like i said when i left i went strait to my fiance and hid it from my ex-husband. I just told him i was done and needed to go. My ex- tried to get me to come back, flowers, cards, etc. But everytime we would talk about our problems and why i was mad, he would basically do the same ****, tell me i was wrong, i was over reacting, yell, scream and call me names. Then 5 minutes later he would say he loved me. I knew he wasnt going to change. About 4 days after i left, i went to go talk to him at our house we had together and things got real heated. He started yelling and screaming, my son was in the front seat playing with the radio, i tried to get into the car to leave and my ex came after me and my son. We fought for a few minutes(no fist just pushing and pulling), then he threw me down, to were i couldnt get back up fast enough to get to my son, he grabbed my son and and ran into the house. He locked himself up in the house and i had to call the police, they couldnt make him give him back to me because their were no papers from court yet. Basically possesion is 9/10ths of the law. Well i cried and begged and he still wouldnt let me get my son, so i left to my moms house. Talked to her and told her i had to go back to him because he was threatning to run away with my son. So i told him i would try to work it out with him, i went back to the house that night. He ended up locking me in our master bedroom, my son was on a pallett on the floor, he pushed the bed against the wall and wouldnt let me have my phone or touch my son or i had to leave. He said if i wanted to be there i had to stay in the room with him and couldnt go anywere. The whole night he tried to get me to have sex with him, he keep touching me and trying to take my clothes off. I was terrified. I was there because i couldnt stand the thought of leaving my son with him. Finally morning came around, he let me out the room, then procceed to try and have sex with me. he keep forcing his self on me. Finally i told him i had to go to the restroom. I got my phone and told my mom please come get me cuz she had my car, i couldnt do it.  I waited outside with my son till she got there, and i left him for good. I couldnt believe he did what he did to me. After him taking my son and touching me like that i knew that was it. He never wanted to help me with our son, never changed diapers, never went to the doctors office but yet thought he deserved him. BULL.  I felt like i was being molested by my own husband that night. I guess i told you all this to explain how much i have going on inside. So much hurt, anger, guilt, it ended up HORRIBLE . I havent even told my fiance the whole story. It kills me inside to think of all this and have no out. No one to talk to. I think about it sometime... Should i have tried harder for my marriage? and the answer is yes. i probably could have done more, i was just so tired of everything. You know my ex- told me i should have threatned him that i was going to leave, he said he would of tried if i did that. WTF? i shouldnt have to threatn you, you should of cared when i tried talking to you? right or wrong?