This is such a long story and one that i've grown quiet tired of..but here goes. I moved to the city where i live now about 16 years ago with my husband and 3 children. My husband's family are all here and for the past several years we've gotten along just fine..until last Christmas Eve. There was a family get together for dinner at 5:30 that evening..my husband went ahead with the kids cause i was running late. I missed dinner but that was okay with me but not with my sister in law. 
 She met me when i walked in to give her a hug and proceeded to tear into me. She told me that she'd taken enough psychology classes to know that i did it on purpose and so on. It was embarrassing which she revealed later to be her intention so i wouldn't do it again. When i came home that nite i sent her an email asking why she felt the need to do that and she could have pulled me aside privately. 
 It turned into a back and forth conversation to which i apologized again and again in hopes of getting past this. Instead she forwarded my emails to everyone that was there that nite saying how abusive i was and how there would never be anymore family get togethers because of me. 
 My son sent her an email that told her of how abusive she has been to others in the family and how he has heard their stories and seen it. He pretty much told her off but in a very eloquent way..no profanity was used towards her.
Okay, so it's been almost 9 months now and i've pretty much been disowned by his family..i'm not allowed to come to family get togethers now. So i've just been sitting at home..i've allowed the rejection to just sit in here and haven't dealt with it cause i thought i'd forgiven all..until the other nite when i just exploded.
 My son came for a visit about 2 weeks ago and the family was outa town..they've disowned him too because of his message to her. Anyway, he stopped by to see her ex-husband while he was here and their daughter just happened to be there. When she got back and found out my son had been there when her daughter was she immediately went off on her ex and threatened him..probably won't let him see his daughter. 
 Her ex contacted my son and asked if he could please write her an apology letter thinking it would fix the situation. I talked to him the other nite only to find out that she wanted another one cause she didn't like the first one. I just thought of the 4 that i sent 9 months ago to which she rejected. I could just see her making my son beg until he got it right for her own amusement. I snapped and sent her a message on facebook that i shouldn't have..i was so angry and upset over how long this has dragged on and didn't want her to keep this going. 
 I said ALOT of things that i shouldn't have and the next morning i had my mother and father in-law running down my hallway at 7am yelling and screaming at me and threatening to strangle me. My kids were getting ready for the 1st day back at school and the whole thing was upsetting. There is a funeral on Thurs. and i was told not to go..my husband won't go if i can't..or to other family get togethers. This is so messed up and i have hardly been able to eat or sleep and now it's affecting my husband and kids. I don't want that for him because they are really close. 
 This has been really hard and although i did what i did, it just didn't seem to matter cause she wasn't gonna let the first thing go. It's been really hard to live here and feel rejected. Now i'm afraid i've sealed the deal because i let it get to me. Now what?