It happens a years ago.i am 24 years old.i am strangling to start my business. my close friend tell me to he can help me and give some money. when time comes he cheated me. i go very shocked that i cheated by my best friend. then i dont remember much but i realizing about my life faults. then suddenly something happen like my brain spin a little in middle of front lobe.. then my mind become so calm like meditating state and i feel blank mind like no mind,i have no thoughts,no feelings,no emotions,no images coming on mind,i cant think,i cant even remember how am i before like my all habits remove from my brain,i feel so positive,and i feel i complete aware of myself,like i am aware of every little thing what am i doing,I don’t remember how I think.i feel something stuck in my middle of chest.where it stuck i remember before this happen felling emotion come from there but it block now nothing coming from there,i also feel pain in middle of my brain front lobe,i am very scared that time. i go to many doctors psychiatrist and neurologist they have nothing like this kind of illness in their books,they give me medication nothing work.but i never feel this kind of mental state,mind like meditative state i feel kkknnneeeeeee sound coming from my inside it stay 24 hours.in this state i aware of my mind illusions,like my beliefs in my mind is all illusions not true ,like i love to eat pizza and i hate vegetables this is a illusion of my mind vegetables not bad or good my mind say bad thats why bad like mind maya i get out of it.my all beliefs brakes. i cant every angry on anyone. i dont know how i understand everything . like i see a tree i feel like i am seeing it no mind filter thoughts coming it like i direct see the tree no mind in middle to filter.and it so awesome feelings, i feel i am not mind because i can see mind it so calm no emotion coming from there ,i am aware of my mind and my body i can feel everything, i feel i am out of my mind i dont know who i am that time. i mean who is that who watching my mind because when i have no mind state someone there still watching the tree or mind thoughts who is that inside me. i feel like my intelligent is cress. it feel like complete new me my whole personality change . i feel like i just wake up from a dream. i dont like noisy place also.when it happens i cant remember things much. i feel like i have no mind it just me. i am not attract to anything feel like let it go. No hope,no will,no ego.i am aware of myself. i feel i always be in present and always happy. no worries. just blank or no mind, just me,i cant discover who is me that time. sir do you anything about it please help me i want to know what happen.i can understand my mind.i am never depress after that,I feel relax and calm state.