Hi, I'm 16 years old. I go to a very prestigious boarding school in New England. I get good grades, I'm skinny and although I don't think so... others say I am pretty. I love my friends. So, why do I feel so confused and horrible all the time? When I was 10 yrs. old I began cutting myself. I was very popular in middle school, and I kept the cutting thing a secret. I cut because I was punishing myself for "making my parents fight." My dad has also never really been present in my life. He admitted to me this yr that it is "hard for him to love me."
  I also had eating issues starting in 6th grade. My parents only saw me as the up-beet little girl who was always busy and having sleepovers... they were oblivious to how much pain I felt. My parents don't get along. We have horrible family fights, where there is throwing, screaming, crying, driving away, threatening, slapping etc. These outbursts were frequent when I was little. I thought these outbursts were because of me... well I was told many times they were. I love my little sister so much, that I decided to go to boarding school, so that she wouldn't have to go through the same things I did when I was little. I thought it would all get better when I left. For the past two years.. boarding school has been chaotic. 
 I have gotten into some drugs. I started drinking in 7th... and now drink about once a week, or twice. I also pop pills occasionally, and smoke pot a lot. For weeks on end I'll be really organized, remember things clearly, feel centered, feel like I know who I am, feel up beat and motivated, and then all the sudden I'll come crashing down, and I'll just feel so empty, alone, and numb. I feel like the only thing I like to do is sleep. My eating habits are very weird too. I can go days without eating much, I have recently lost 12 lbs. I'm 5'5 and 106. And now, after recently crashing, popping a shitload of advil, xanax, and valium, I can't move. It takes to much energy for me to even shower, take out my contacts, go to the bathroom, change my clothes! I feel so lost, and like I don't know myself at all. Sometimes I look in the mirror and get this sudden horrifying feeling... like I can't associate myself or recognize my own reflection.  This started a while ago actually. Recently I have noticed I don't remember things clearly, or at all, or I can't tell if I have said something, or just thought it in my head. I'm so frustrated with myself!! I want to be happy, but even when I am happy I feel it is "fake." I feel liek I am always constantly not good enough for the people around me and for myself. I feel like a disease. But in two weeks, I won't. I go from extreme happiness and confidence to wanting to kill myself in a matter of weeks. I have also used a lot alone... when I am down... and almost killed myself with alcohol at age 15. I can't stand being alone. And my worst fear above all is being alone. I cry for hours just because of this fear. I also am very quick to anger, I throw things, scream, yell. I have tried to jump out of a moving car. I hate feeling so imbalanced, and lost, and confused. I also get this "not here" feeling... like I am not where I am. My eyes kind of glaze over and my parents constantly ask "did you hear what I just said"? I feel very detatched, almost sometimes like I don't even exist. ugh. I am extremely emotional, movies can effect my outlook, and my perspective always changes. But recently, after this crazy weekend where I got really drunk, hooked up with a random black guy, and danced naked in a parking lot, then popped a lot of pills.... I feel more lost than ever. I also have vivid horrifying nightmares, or me dieing, or being dead. I used to be very confident and popular, but I got from being anti-social, to very social, depending on if Im down or up. 
 Lastly, I had learning problems when I was young, and have been diagnosed with mild ADHD. Whenever I complain a little my Mom blames it on ADHD... I think there is something else wrong though.
 I feel crazy. But I DO have goals, I do love my family even with their flaws and my friends, I just wished I loved myself as much as them, and I wish this craziness wasn't getting in the way, because even though I don't care that it is hurting me, I DO care, because it is hurting my friends and family now! I'm only 16, and things just seems to be getting worse :/ 
 whats wrong?