I need so much help....When my husband and i got married i didn't think he had slept around i knew it was 2 women and mine was 1 before him. I have always had such strong feeling about me Not being with someone who has been around and just a man *****. I felt like i was lucky bc he wasn't like that. I knew he was a party animal and he made me feel like he didn't care about girls and told me allot when we dating. But when we were about 3 months married i was almost 2 months pg i got his phone to look up something and saw all these nameson google so i llooked on his history and he was looking up women. And it got me so angry i had feelings that something was weird when id be watching something like he liked them but he didn't do anything for me to say anything. I should have listen to my gutt. But he started to check girls our that we see 2-4 times a week and not only that i found out he talked to so many girls that i know and we see them one is married to my brother and he didn't even tell me i found out by going on his old Facebook to see what i was missing. And that girl my brother is married to was trying hook my cousin up with some girl and M** made out with her. And my other cousin he use to like and i had barely started heating about all this recently. I feel tricked and lied to id ask him stuff and he'd like until later I'd find our the truth he talked and messed around with so many girls its pretty much anyone that brings a girl my husband knows them or they know about him. Idk how to deal with this i don't like to go out or anything. I love himbut cant getpass this and umderstandhe will be attracted to other girls andto trust he will control it. Wewillbe married for 2 years and. Imjust sad about whats happened im so insecure now i dont like him going to the store with me and he said hesbeen trying but i can't believe him. He goes out of his way all the time for me alwhen i get anxiety about stuff he'll leave change the channel not go places bc of it but we can't be miserable. Forever idkhow to getpassed this