I lived with my ex for 2 years and had a baby during this time. He used to be very jealous by not wanting me to talk to other men and wear a ring on my wedding finger while I was at work. He went everywhere I went and didn't like me going anywhere on my own. 
 When my baby was born for the first 2 weeks he did all the nappy changes, took turns on a night and helped around the house. At 2 weeks old it was his turn to do the nights and I remember him kicking me to wake me up and he was like a mad man screaming and swearing because the baby had been sick on him. He gave me the baby and said he'd been nice and tried everything and the f*****g little b*****d had no consideration for him. He picked up the baby bottle and flung it as hard as he could across the room. My baby was only being sick because he'd fed her 4 bottles to keep her quiet. He refused to help out with any nights ever again and didn't want anything to do with her. 
 His behaviour got worse he screamed and swore for me to shut that f*****g baby up told me he hated her and she had ruined his life. He quit his job because he said if he continued to work he would end up ill in hospital and he would end up dead. He slept all day and he knew I was getting an hour or 2 sleep during the night and would tell me he was tired from over sleeping. 
 He had 3 cats that were trying to jump up at the baby all the time and get in her cot and he refused to get rid of them because they were there first and the baby was last in. He head-butted the door and screamed at me because my baby was crying for a bottle. 
 I told him I was leaving and he cried saying his health would get worse and he would die if I left. He said if I never mentioned all the screaming and swearing to anyone that he would change. I gave him a second chance but after a couple of weeks his behaviour got twice as bad. My baby wouldn't let him pick her up and if he tried she cried. He told me he had that much anger inside that he could punch and punch the person who had wound him up and he could even kill. 
 I took my baby to my parents for a week and I decided to leave him. My parents came with me to collect my stuff and my baby saw her father and started screaming and trying to get away from him I couldn't get her to stop crying until she couldn't see or hear him. 
 It is now a year after I've left him and he has admitted via an email that he has hit and nipped her when she was just 6 months old. He said he hit her because she was shouting too loud and he nipped her because she nipped him first. He has now decided that he wants to see my baby and has got himself a solicitor. I refused any contact because of him physically abusing her and my baby is petrified of him. I've spoken with social services and the police but they said he can take me to court to fight for access. My midwife reported him to social services for his behaviour during her visit after my baby was born. 
 I'm trying to get advice on how to stop him getting any visitation to my baby.