Hi, I'm Sam, I'm fifteen years old.
This will probably be quiet long.
I'm sorry.
Ever since me and my siblings were young we were "homeschooled". We didn't have the proper books, we didn't know anything. We grew up knowing nothing.
My brother, 8 years old. Didn't know how to read even "gunk".
My mom would scream at him "why don't you know anything?! You're not two years old!' and would call him all these words for "stupid" "dumb" idiot" and he would cry. We grew up this way, not knowing anything. We were stupid when it came to education. We just recently started to go to school. We're doing better now. Although, it's too late for my three older siblings. They never got that, they had no school. My dad abused us as we were young, my brothers have missing teeth, hair was ripped out of their skulls and still hasn't grown back.
My parents divorced because my mom could have died because of him.
Now, my dad blames us and constantly tortures us with questioning us, screaming at us and telling us he hates us how much we probably like my moms "******" boyfriend so much more than him until my little sister cries and pees herself, literally. He will scream at us and verbally abuse us.
My mom, for years has verbally and physically abused me. I had a sprained wrist, and she once pushed me down the stairs. She will constantly call me a *****, tell me to **** myself, say i'm disgusting, say I'm fat, say i'm satan. She will call me a demon, say I don't belong in her house. I'm transgender, FTM. Ever since I came out, she's been calling me a demon and or satan. will slap me multiple times if I don't do as I'm told, I once passed out because she hit my head so hard with a remote. She doesn't do this to my younger siblings.
I've tried to kill myself multiple times. This year, three attempts.
Things are slowly getting better, she isn't hurting me as much anymore.
I just wanted to let these things out.
Sorry.
Also, I don't want to call CPS so please don't suggest it, I would rather not. My younger siblings need a mother. Next year, I'll be sent away in Japan for a year and once I come back, I'm moving out. So it's really no use to do anything like that and ruin my younger siblings.