I have a brother in law who scares me and it seems his mother and the people around him can't see he is dangerious and could snap on any one of them.
 1998:
Story short, we rented a condo he bought, he asked to live with us due to marital dispute for
no longer than a month. Month was horrid, he litterally took over and disrepected my husband or my wishes. 
 One day  he took my keys and didn't bring them back till next day.  I knew in my gut he got a key made. 
 He did not respect my wishes, example, I didn't want his young daughter
to watch a movie not suitable for a child with sexual content and my husband and two other men
in the condo watching it and drinking too.  I sent her out to the garage with her father and he came back in with her and sat down in front of the tv with her and totally defied my wishes, things like this.
He was totally taking our home over in many ways making it feel like we were the visitors yet
we were the renters paying ALL THE BILLS, he was the guest/landlord 
 At the end of the month he told me he needed to stay another month, I stood up to him and said
no.
 He came back with an eviction notice and gave us a full month to leave and as luck would have it
we got into a house which totally threw him for a loop for he thought we would be stuck there
and have to kiss his butt hense he would be in control.
 In the process of moving one night between 1 am and no later than 4 am for my husband wakes up early he snuck in, we have a dog but he was used to my in - law from the month before staying there.
 He put a calling card on my keyring the size of a credit card, it was the pool key with that condo number on it but the funny thing is he never gave us one, he said he didn't get one from the owner
when he bought the condo and we all had to send someone climbing the fense to get inside to open
the door to the pool area even his own children when they came over.
 He denied it but there was no other person that had access to house key, pool key and he lived there a month with our dog.  Everyone of his family members and close friends blew it off like it was no big deal and didn't believe me or that he would do that.  I was forced to live with the wonders
of what in the hell did he do while in there and why did he leave a calling card.
 Present day:
He has been diagnosed last year with having extreme mental disorder in the divorce procedures and extreme drug abuse and denial of drug abuse, meth his choice of drug.  I've read about dangerious personality disorders and borderline personality disorders and he actually had ALL of the symptoms.
He has rages that are getting worst with his wife whom for some reason took him back even after the court awarded her full custody of their small boy.  He has displayed this rage in front of his mother breaking a solid wood door in half.  He is minipulated his mother now that he has been given a TPO
and cannot go back to his home and has started coming around his mother and other ex wives home
which is less than a quarter mile from my home.  He has written a suicide letter and has threatened
more than once to do this.  He is at moment playing the good boy and saying he is doing good that he is not doing drugs which I would put money on isn't true but a way to get  his mother to get her to help him and she is ignoring all the warning signs that are right in front of her nose which is a long list.
 My thing is, I've gotten really close to his mother over the past year and now that he is running
back to her my name is in the picture and he doesn't like me because he can't minipulate me and
I stand up to him and he just last year around the time of the divorce proceedings when he found out his wife was talking to me took something from the front of our house that made no sense, meaning
it was something no one would want but it was something he would know I would notice missing.
It was his way of letting me know he was there and there was nothing I could do about it. ( A big 
pillow filled with wood chips I put out there for a wild cat to lay on.  It was heavy and had been there
for a year through strong winds and to heavy for a cat to drag or a dog for that matter. I rode my bike around the whole neighborhood looking for it in the street in trash cans on lawns for blocks and it was
no where to be seen.  I put the food dish under it in the morning and took the food dish out from it
in the evening to put food out for the cat and he had seen me do this and knew it would be noticed 
if gone.)
 I have a fear he is going to snap for his suicide threats from Dec. to Jan. were extreme involving police on a couple instances.  I have been made aware of other things he has been doing in regards to stalking his wife since the TPO.  Also before he was told to leave his home he had made a hanging noose and had it hanging on the wall like you would a painting and would stare at it.
 I guess my question is if he snaps and decides to take someone with him would be am I in danger? I
refuse my husband to have anything to do with him and myself have nothing to do with him but
as I mentioned my name is popping up and in the past he would tell his first wife, second wife,
and children and common friends to have nothing to do with me so with him realizing how close
his mother and I are getting is this expanding his attention my way where he can find me as a threat to his plans of getting his mom to take care of him. He doesn't work, she is giving him $$ since his wife is no longer doing this.  
 I assure you I have condensed this letter as much as I could but there are so many signs of
the disorders apparant and I have had to stand up to him more than once in my 14 years 
being married.  He has proven to me he can do things and get away with it but now that he
is getting closer and closer to stepping over that saftely line I'm afraid his actions could be
more substantial.