My husband and I have been married for three and half years.  We became best friends prior to getting married and our marriage was very good since we shared such a good relationship.  A few months ago my brother in law moved in with his wife.  They have a very bad relationship and were always fighting and even beating each other.  It ruined the peace in my house and my husband and I would spend more time fixing their fights or arguing over their problems, then taking care of ourselves.  After that, my mother in law came.  She was fine with me the previous two times she visited and stayed with us (always stayed like 3 months at a time), but this time, she totally changed on me.  She manipulated my husband into believing that I was disheartening her and that I was not giving her respect.  My husband was never home, so it was my word against hers.  She would go through our stuff in our room when we both were at work and she would stand outside my bedroom and listen to our conversations.  I caught her many times, but ignored.  Finally, one day I told my husband and started fighting with me over it.  Then, when he asked her, she denied it.   After my mother in law left, she kept calling my husband when I wasn't around and feeding him negativity about me.  She kept crying and doing drama that I hurt her feelings and that is why she left.  I didn't understand what was going on because she never did that to me before.  If you met her, you would think she's the nicest MIL in the world.   
 During all this my brother in law started putting negative thoughts in my husbands head, too.  My sister in law told me one day that my mother in law and brother in law are trying to control my husband because he worships the ground I walk on and they don't like it.   She also told me that her husband (my brother in law) has been trying to turn her against me so that we won't get a long.   I didn't know how to react, so I just took it as information and ignored it.  I figured if I don't get involved, then nothing will happen. 
 All this kept adding up and one day my husband and I got into a huge fight.  His brother and mother had made up lies and totally provoked him against me.  I told him it wasn't true and he didn't listen, so I walked out of the house. 
A day later, we made up and he promised that he would take care of the issues his brother was causing.  However, that lasted about a minute, because the second I entered the house again, his brother caused more problems.  This time, the sister in law back-stabbed me too and lied that I said things which I didn't.   My husband stood there against me with all of them and at that time I mentally broke down and decided that I needed to be separated.  There were too many misunderstandings and my husband was not ready to listen.  On top of that, his family was just lying left and right to make sure all their bull s*** gets covered up.  
 A lot of things went down...it was a nasty fight between both families.  I also reacted out of anger and so did they. However, despite what he did and his family did, I still want to be with him.    It's been three months that we have been separated and the other day he sent me a legal notice indicating there will be no reconciliation.  He wants divorce.  In the past three months, I have cried, I have begged, I even went to see him (we are long distance right now), I emailed him, I tried to have his friends and family talk to him - I mean..everything has been done from my side to reconcile even though I am not the root cause of this problem.  His own family and friends told me that he is being an idiot and is wrong, but because he is so close to his family and blindly trusts them, he doesn't have the guts to stand up for what's right for him.  
 I am very heartbroken and hurt.  I love him a lot and I know deep down he loves me too.  But he doesn't have the courage to stand up for me against his family.  His problem is not me at this point, his problem is that his family has a problem with me.  I don't know what to do...I initially walked out to save myself mental torture (my sister in law is a mental depression patient and takes pills because of how my mother in law ruined her relationship with her husband), but this is not any better.   I want my husband back, but he fails to see the truth.  He fails to realize that we both were perfect before his family came.  He is the kind of guy who couldn't even spend one hour without talking to me and now its been three months and he has had no heart to come and even give us a chance.  He didn't even tell me he wanted divorce.  He emailed it to me!  
 The worst is that he is doing all this because his family is forcing him to.  So he's making himself believe all these lies about me and he wrote me nasty emails pointing fingers at my character and all these fabricated stories from what his mother and brother have told him.  He has created this negative false image of me so that he could get through this.  I don't know what to do.  In our country mother in laws are a huge problem and they are known to brainwash their sons because of jealousy, ego, and wanting control.  I would have never thought she was like that, but boy was a I wrong!
 I don't know how to get through this.  My husband refuses to talk to me, his family has forced him to cut off all contact with his friends and relatives, and his family also hasn't tried to resolve this.