Been married for 7yrs.  Got married at 19. Agreed to move to my SIL's basement apt to save some money and buy our own house. We both continue with school and working hard to save money.  Turns out my husband is a mommy boy.  For 5 years, his parents will come with their visa and stay at my SIL apartment (upstairs) for 6 months (each time).  His mom MUST do the lunch and breakfast for him to take to work.  One day my husband ask me if I was ok if she did the food for us and since I thought it was going to be for 6 months only I agreed (BIG MISTAKE).  2yrs ago my husband's brother got killed and the parents came and since stood here.  My husband changed their visa to legal residents. She started the cooking and wanted to do the laundry, too!!! I said NO.  Fights started, she said a wife comes a goes but a mother always stays. I don't blame her completely, I blame my husband for letting the situation got to a point where I can't even hear her voice.  All she does is critique the way everyone leave. She stays at the windows watching who leaves and comes home.  Leave the door open to know when we arrive.  I went to counseling by myself because I thought I was doing something wrong.  Turns out the counselor tells me I'm very brave for still being there.  We have no kids.  My husband barely speaks to me and when he does is because he wants to have sex or he needs something.  We don't have daily couple talk.  He doesn't call.  His argument is that my family always asks me for money and they never there to help and they don't care about me.  But, his family has money, but stays leaving together and fight all the time.  I told him, with my family, we visit one day and we are gone.  If we don't like something we just go.  With your family there is a fight and 5mins later we need to suck it up and smile!!!! I tried to leave in 2 occasions but I chicken out because I TRULY LOVE HIM. However, I feel like my marriage is braking or is not fixable anymore.  His mom uses her money and the apartment he has in his country to manipulate him and have something to talk about.  She does the finances for him there.  His terms, "That was mine before we married."  True, however, why doesn't him manage it himself!  Why her?  We bought an apt there too (I was stupid enough to accepted it) and now guess what?  She does the financing there too.  I will be ok if she didn't leave with us.  However, having to see her every day and see how much she can influence my husband with her critics really bothers me because is like he thinks as a "solo" not as a couple.  I'm desperate and don't know what to do anymore.  Should I just leave.  I keep hoping this will change.  He told me this year she will go back to her country and only come every 6months.  But, I fear this will continue the same. We fight constantly for anything.  It's like he doesn't have any patience anymore.  PLEASE HELP!! Any advise?