So here I am, almost 39, and I swear I am in the process of Perimenopause! It all started when I was a month shy of 36.  I started going through some changes, and I wanted to know what was going on.  I saw my regular doc, he gave me meds for depression, they made me worse and he determined, it was not depression and suggested I get my hormones tested.  So there it all began.....I have 4 children, ages 16 to 9.  I am 5'1, 115 pounds, and I keep fit, but I have been to tired lately to care, but I am still active.  In 2011, at the end of that year, hormones were tested, and my numbers were a bit crazy but nothing terrible.  He said gain some weight, stop stressing and you will be fine.  I have had my doctor now 21 years, and I do not want anyone other but lately, I am not so sure he is understanding my emotions......I did what he said, and It all got a bit better...on and off....but nothing too crazy to ask anything other.......until Feb of 2014...At this time, I got a divorce, still friends as we always were, but no more romance....and I moved out, got my own place and had a big life change.  Kids were back and forth, but happy to have two houses, they seemed cool so that eased me a lot! I worked full time, saw kids less, but had a great life really. 
I started a new relationship that I am currently in at this time, since May of 2014. I felt bad that this man walked into my life at this time my emotions were hormonal...but I fell in love, we all did, even my Ex thought he was perfect for me finally!
But at this point, my hormones were starting to go hay wire, I blamed it on all the life changes. Doc kept saying, blood work is OK but your progesterone is slowly leaving, so take BC and you will be fine.....He gave me POPS, that I never took. I do not want to medicate, I want to get to the bottom of the issue, not cover it up.....
 So here it goes now that you see the stresses of normal life....
I had blood work done 3 times since 2/14.  My progesterone is getting lower, estradoil is getting lower.....but he still says my numbers are good, within range, I'm not peri....
My periods were always 24 days, and lasted 4 days, 2 heavy, 1 off and last day heavy for a few hours then drips until it was gone.....No pain for the most part, normal. My first test in 2011 was because they started to change, and I was worried.  
Since then, they have been scattered, for 8 months out of the year, they were ok, a day early, a day late but ok.  I would have 4 months of crazy to finish the year.  Then they would be ok again, until 2014......They would go anywhere from 16 days to 31 days and come when they wanted and would now be 5 to 6 days.  I had paid every other month, some to the point it hurt to move, but nothing I could not deal with....
 The last few months, things are really off.....They are scattered, lasting longer, not coming, heavy when here....spotting in between.....moods are crazy, to the point I cannot deal with myself, I get angry, want to just sleep because Im so tired after work, no energy, real bad dreams, wake up sweating, have to sleep with no shirt if I want a comfy sleeping night...I cry for no reason.. My body hurts, boobs crazy sore, and then suddenly...I'm fine like nothing ever happened. 
Aug 2015 period.....was 8 days long, heavy mostly, pain, sleepy, then a week after it ended, I spotted right after sex for about 2 hours.
Sept 2015, 21 days in between, 9 days long, heavy and same signs, again, a week after, spotted after sex. Oct was also 21 days later, lasted 15 days, no spotting as the period never stopped.
I just had my Nov one, 13 days late (37 days in between), was heavy for 6 hours, and only lasted two days so I'm not sure it was even a period..... I do not know when it is coming, I do not know when its here if it is going to stop, but my numbers are all within normal, and my progesterone is <0.5 in this last round of blood work on Oct 30th....I'm not ovulating at all. I have not ovulated normal in a year....  Doc said last year (2014) that it could be PCOS but I have no signs at all of that......No ultrasounds to confirm, normal paps.....I see my doc again in Dec, and I am going to ask him to test me once a week for a month to see the numbers, and see if he can take my thoughts and help.  I think I am peri, he says I'm too young.  All I know, is if my body is going through this now, so be it, and I have done tons of reading so I know what to expect.  I have noticed my LH has gone from like 14.6 to 1.9....other then that, my other numbers seem ok, but all in the wrong phases, I have become my own doc.  I want to know what is going on and make sure it is not something more serious. Thanks for listening, and I can see many other ladies are going through this too.