When I was about 8 years old (I'm not 19) my mom got with this black man.  We stayed in a hotel bc she wanted to see him we were three for two days.  There was a swimmming pool but bc of it being late when we got there we had to wait til the next day.  It was me my younger sister and my two younger brothers and my mom and her dude she was seeing that were there.  We had two beds.  The next morning when we got up we asked to go swimming and I woke my mom to ask her and she said that when we all got ready to go we could go well while the others were changing I noticed(not at the time but looking back) that him and my mom were having sex but he was behind her laying in the bed trying not to make it too obvious.  And he looked at me and winked.  When everyone else was done I went int he bathroom to change when I came out he was waiting by the door when I walked by he slappedme on the butt and winked and said "bad girl" I didn't understand that then.  Then I went to tell my mom and she said he meant nothing by it that I should listen to him.  When he came back I walked away from the bed but the whole time he was laying down he smiled at me. I walked over to wake my mom up to tell her to wake up so we could go swimming and as I reached up to grab her shoulder to shake her he grabbed my arm pulling me between them with my moms back facing me but his front on my back.  He then held me laying on my side while he put his hand down my top and at the same time down my bottoms I then started reaching across my mom grabbing at everything I could to get up while I was crying bc he wasn't letting me up.  My mom kept getting mad telling me to stop and to be still.  He finally let me up and I ran all the way across the room and everyone but my mom was looking at me.  After a second I ran to the bathroom crying she came to the door telling me to come out she had to pee.  I grabbed a towel and covered up as I waited by the door for her to come out.  I told her about it as we were leaving the hotel and she said there was nothing she could do bc she didn't see it happen.  That I should have told her when it was happening.  
When I was 12 my mom got her rights took away from her with just me bc I wasn't going to school on the count of depression and shutting myself off from everyone afraid of what happened and not knowing what to do about it.  I got out with a 6th grade teacher, that's the grade I was in at the time, she had two sons that lived with her one that was almost right at a year older then me and the other about 5 years older then me.  I stayed upstairs they stayed downstairs.  One day the oldest came and grabbed me by my pants legs and pulled me down the steps.  The younger one tried pulling me away from him, my pants ended up ripping and that night we went to church they made me wear a skirt to church and on the way back the younger one put his hand under my skirt and looked at me and was gesturing for me to be quiet.  He then put his fingers down there.  And when we got home he finally stopped I ran upstairs locking the door to hurry and change.  I was afraid to tell anyone thinking they wouldn't believe me.  
When I was 14 I went to stay at my uncles house and he was drunk one night me and my sister fell asleep on the bed while he was awake, I woke up to him having his hands in my pants and his hand under my bra.  I moved around hoping he would stop bc of being scared of him he had recently(while drunk) grabbed me by my neck and slammed me into the floor saying he would slam me through the concrete that he didn't care.  I finally got up and went to the bathroom asking my mom to come get us in the next morning.  Bc it was 3 in the morning. She asked me what had happened when we got home and I told her nothing and she was like didhe touch you in any kind of way, my brother had told her bc he had seen it.  But she still did nothing about it.  
When I was 16 I had a drunk old man(while he was drinking) pulling his shirt up, wanting me to lift up my shirt.  I told him no and he kept trying he then wanted me to come over.  I walked over staying a good distance away, he then was trying to pull my shirt up himself I pulled away as fast as I could telling him no.  I ran to the room the lady that was there telling her but no one done anything about it.
Now I am married and I've woken up to my husband having his hand in my pants and forcing himself on me at times.  He knows what has happened to me in the past.  And now I just feel like it's messed up my life I feel so uncomfortable around anyone drinking, and around most men period unless someone is around that I know wouldn't let anything happen to me.  At times even when me and my husband try things, all this crosses my mind and it terrifies me ans I start crying.  I wish I knew if a way to deal with this.  But its so hard and its hard to talk about even after all these years since it first happened. But no one has ever cared about it or some anything about it.