I just don't even know where to start.. The more I think about this stuff the crazier i feel..
 I don't trust myself or my decisions anymore and i HATE that feeling because I don't know what is the right thing to do or to say.. 
 I don't rage and i don't cut, I haven't felt "suicidal" for about 7 years and that is without therapy or meds.
 I am currently in therapy and not on meds... I am hypothyroid "which can make underlying conditions worse including BPD. I also just had a baby 5 months ago and i'm sure have some post-partum hormonal stuff going on "so lots of stuff" going on here... 
 The problem:
I am on my 5th marriage which i now see as "BPD" behavior - unstable and intense relationships... I have never "beaten" my husbands, i have never to what i would describe as "raged" or abused.. actually i have been in relationships that i have been abused in.. But anyway.. I have all the other characteristics of BPD, i use splitting and all black and white thinking and i freak out if i'm going to be alone and i push and pull "come here go away" etc... or if my husband does things that trigger my abandonement issues.. We both are very well aware and can see it etc.. 
 My marraige for the last 2 years has been constantly up and down/ back and forth/ in and out... I have left him numerous times i think 10 times in the last 2 years "we have only known each other 2 1/2 years" This has been one of the most challenging relationships that i have been in even for a person with BPD.. I think those challenges are because my husband is different than what i'm used to being with, and i think he has a lot of emotional issues himself and he is a very weak person "i know this sounds horrible for me to say" but  he is EXTREMELY emotionally weak.. He needs ME to pamper him and step around his feelings as not to say or do anything to bother him, I feel like i am a BPD that is also walking on egg shells.. I don't think he is BPD but he definitely likes to manipulate and "play a victim" when i am not victimizing him AT ALL.. I am not stereotypical BPD, i have a lot of the characteristics but the difference of me is that i take accountability and i rise above this and recognize when i am behaving in a destructive manner and attempt to pull myself out of it.. I can recognize it, i am very in tune and aware of my actions and I take responsibility for it and attempt to correct my actions BEFORE it's too late or creates too much chaos in my life.. 
 My husband is blaming EVERYTHING on my BPD, he plays a victim role and then takes no responsibility for his actions and then blames ME and BPD and PMS and Post-partum crap for ALL of our problems AND if that's not enough sometimes I wonder if he isn't twisting his words to MAKE me feel like i'm going crazy.. The last time we split up he said he was taking custody of our 5 month old because to quote what he said "you have some serious issues and need a lot of help"... Who says that? he is supportive and loving but then uses it against me as amunition when he needs it and things aren't going his way..
 does the things i said above sound like BPD thinking? i'm wondering if i'm actually losing my mind or if the stress from this unhealthy marriage is contributing and harming me in the end?? I seriously feel worse off now then i was when i first met my husband from an emotional standpoint and i don't know if it's BPD, Post-partum, thyroid or my marriage that needs help.. ughhh... I don't trust my thoughts anymore... can anyone give me some perspective please?