I have a very important question about female menstruation. For the first few months of our relationship my girlfriend got her period around the 26th of each month, give or take a day or two. For the last few months her period had been occurring a bit earlier than usual but we didn't think much about it. I don't remember the exact day, but in December I remember she got her period before Christmas, and I believe she finished it before Christmas Day. In January she began her period (I believe) on the 18th. Her most recent period began on February 10th, only 23 days after her previous period had begun. I did a google search on early periods, and I was very alarmed to see that many of the search results mentioned pregnancy. I did a bit of research on implantation bleeding, and from what I have read I don't believe her period resembled implantation bleeding in any way. I read that implantation bleeding usually occurs as light spotting, is colored differently than regular period blood, and typically lasts only 1-2 days. My girlfriend assures me that her period flow was perfectly normal in amount and in color, and I know that it lasted about 5 days. Based on what I have read I feel fairly confident that her early period was not implantation bleeding, but because of many contrasting things I read I am still concerned about her period coming only 23 days after the previous one. She is about to be 16 years old and has been getting her period for several years. Her periods had been pretty regular before this. We are sexually active but are safe. I always wear a Trojan condom, and I carefully pull-out a few seconds early to be extra safe. I even wash my hands before allowing them any contact with that area of her body. Logically I don't see how she could possibly be pregnant and deep down I feel like I know she's not, but it's still been causing me a lot of stress and anxiety these last several weeks. Today is the 21st day since she began that early period, so her next period should begin within the next week. As the time for that draws nearer my anxiety increases, and I am hoping that a professional opinion will ease my mind. It is completely unacceptable to our families and to ourselves that we could be making such a big mistake at such a young age, and it would completely derail our lives because we are so young and not nearly prepared for such responsibility. I will very greatly appreciate your responses and professional opinions. Thank you!