I am feeling totally lost. 
I have been with my partner for 18 years and we have a 3 year old daughter. He has smoked weed for as long as I have known him and although I have really tried to get him to stop he just says it's a part of him and he will never stop. It was about 3 years ago (when our little girl was born) that I really started to notice big problems even though I have been aware he has struggled with depression on and off over the years. He started to tell me about how the neighbours were spying on him - following him around the house and shouting abuse to him no matter which room he went in. He even said that they've bugged our car. There is sooooo much more behind this but gives you a good insight. 
He lost his job and his Dad got ill. 
Cutting a LONG story short he is now living with his parents and has been doing for nearly 2 years. When he first arrived his dad took him to the hospital and they decided he was ok. He has an ability to 'cover it up' and tells me that he will always do that if anyone takes him back there. It was to get away from the neighbours - but I cannot deny it was a relief for me. Things has got better and he has a job, we talk a lot on the phone, see each other every weekend.......but recently we had a holiday and on the last night he started to drink a lot. We didn't even have an argument, he just started to talk about my family...how they hate him and make jokes about him. He then started to say things like they have been looking up his medical records and said HORRIBLE things about my sisters and their partners. It was so scary - I did nothing but try to get him to calm down. He pushed me over and slapped me. Someone called security and he ran off. I left with my little girl that night even though I was worried for his own safety. He now is back at his parents and angry at me for telling his parents as its 'put him back 2 years'. His parents have their own problems as I say his Dad is ill and his mum is trying to deal with that. They also say they don't know what to do but his mum cries at the thought of me leaving him. 
I just can't do it anymore. 
I know he needs help - but he doesn't see that. I can't deal with what was directed at the neighbours now being pointed at my own family. My heart breaks to leave him for what it will do to him, his parents, my little girl.....but I don't know how to fix things. Can anyone help me?