So this requires a little bit of back story.  So a family member of mine that I live with has blown $80 on changing the locks and is going to blow hundreds of dollars on a security camera system when we both make minimum wage.  This is all to catch these people in the act who have been harassing them for 20+ years by breaking in (even while we're both here I might add, they have stated this before numerous times) and stealing things like their underwear or spoons.  I told them if they haven't caught the people after over 20 years then they will probably never catch them but they told me this doesn't mean anything nor matter.  I know that when nothing shows up on the security cameras that they will have an excuse for why this happened and yet things are still missing and will whole heartedly believe it no matter how asinine the excuse is.  The family member will not tell me where the cameras are being placed which I feel is an invasion of my privacy and that I should have a right to know since I pay half the rent.  This all culminated from them suddenly missing a couple pairs of jeans and finding a pair which "isn't their's" and so they proceeded to slam the jeans in to the wall and other things and scream about how the pants were not theirs and how they were going to kill or do horrible things if they ever caught these people in the act.  They fly into a rant frequently when this stuff occurs, screaming at no one at all about all the horrible things that will be done to these people.  They have accused me of letting these people in before when I go out of my way to bring no one over to avoid this.  The family member's illness has times when it increases in severity a lot but it is ever present as a chronic thing as well and right now is particularly worse than any other time.  I asked a student going to school in the mental health field if it even sounded like it could be mental illness and they told me they would have to check additional affect and such but it "sounds like a pretty clean-cut cookie-cutter case of paranoid schizophrenia" and according to them they passed their diagnosis test with flying colors as they are intimately familiarized with each mental illness diagnosis.  The family member has even said before that someone broke in and put pubic hairs all over the food in the fridge that they cooked but this was several years ago, it just stuck in my memory with how ridiculous it was and I thought it would be another good example to give here.
 My question is that after knowing all that, would you say there is anything I can do to stop them from putting security cameras in here?  People tell me if a person doesn't get on medication by the time they're 40 and have schizophrenia that the individual won't respond well to treatment at all which, this person is much older than 40.