I want to apologize in advance if this comes out long. I'm a 26 year old female. I have a always been a shy person, even as a child. Around 19, I began blushing when I was nervous which lead me to have a social anxiety disorder. I have always had some type of anxiety and anxious feeling. Always want things to be perfect and always considered about how everybody is feeling and want everybody to be happy. In March, I had my first panic attack. Ever since then I keep having them every so often and I also have tingling and numbness in my face, hands, and toes on and off for months now. I have had tests done and all the doctors say it is anxiety related. For the past 3 months, I have felt very anxious almost 24/7. I felt like screaming aloud. Just normal things felt stressful and I kind of started being a little snappy. About a month ago, I woke up one day and had all these intrusive violent thoughts about hurting myself and others. I had such anger and wanted to pull out my hair, pinch, punch, yell. I would look at people and picture myself doing all these horrible things to them. Mind you I could never even kill a bug before all this. I had urges to eat soap, feces, and lysol, it seemed like whatever I looked at I imagined eating, even though the thought of it made me nauseous. I was sitting eating dinner one day and felt this anger and wanted to take the chicken breast I was eating and tear it into pieces and run out of the room. I seriously thought about checking myself into a mental hospital everyday. I never gave into these urges. I also kept feeling like I was in a dream, I would look in the mirror and I knew it was me but it didnt feel like me. I also finally say a pyschiatrist and she told me I have anxiety. She also told me that dream like state I was feeling was called depersonalization. I started taking lexapro 5mg on saturday. The thing is I can't help but think I'm in the beginning stage of schizophrenia or bipolar or borderline personality disorder. I keep waiting to hear voices or see something. The other night I got freaked out when I was watching tv with my boyfriend and I pictured a window behind his tv and a terrace outside his two windows and I didn't actually see anything or actually think it was there but I just had this thought for a spilt second that it was there. I dont even know if that makes sense but ever since then I have been stressing about it and thinking it was a hallcunation even though I know it wasnt there. I have also been having bad mood swings. I have felt sad, empty, hopeless. I don't know if it's because I started having all the violent thoughts and it scared me and put me in a depression. I have moods where I feel fine and then other times I just want to cry. I also have not wanted to be alone and when I am I think more and feel lost and alone. The thing that is bothering me still though is my thinking about the window in my boyfriend's room, I just can't seem to move past it. At work today I was thinking to myself what other crazy thoughts am I going to have? and then this crazy thought came into my head, "There are monkeys in the bathroom" I am actually laughing as I type because I know how ridicoulous that sounds. Then I had the urge to tell my co-worker that exact sentence. Are these random crazy thoughts that don't make sense hallcunations? I kept thinking to myself what is wrong with me? Now I worked myself up and feel really anxious. I have been on the internet non stop googling my symptoms and I don't know if I am just imagining things like the window or monkeys because I keep thinking I am going to see something or I am actually losing my mind. On the way home from work I was looking at posters and the eyes of the posters looked like they were looking at me and I don't really think that they were or because I read about the delusions that schizophrenics have? Do I sound like I'm in the beginning stages of schizophrenia? Thanks for listening.