For 20 months I was dating someone who had suffered from depression, and had actually been sectioned. When we first met everything was amazing. We both fell in love with each other quite intensely and everything was going so well that she actually proposed to be engaged after 14 months which I rejected. She had consistently told me how much she loved me and wanted only me. She said 'when you know you're with the guy you want to spend your life with, why wait?' 
 We then decided to live together after the summer, with her parents buying us a property. I was going to go to Uni so I made the choice of choosing a lesser university to be with her. I remember quite distinctly telling her on the bed ' you do know this means you have to be committed to me for three or so years' and she replied ' I'm ready to commit myself to you for much longer than that'. And then I asked 'what if there are problems?' and she replied ' There won't be any problems. I can't foresee any.' Anyway, while making my choice for university, she was like 'I don't know why you're hesitating; we both know we want to be together.' she had actually told her friends that she wanted to get married either in the first year of living together, or the third. A friend blurted it out when she was tipsy, as we were having a private conversation 
 Weeks later everything turned upside down. She did her exams and became very depressed, and, consequently, the relationship was harder than normal. She then went on holiday and then come back and said she had loss all attraction for me (despite the fact that prior to the holiday she was initiating sex constantly and telling me ' I love you so much’ and proposing marriage. She didn't want us to live together anymore, and she felt trapped. She then said I was straying dangerously close to the friend zone and berated me for, effectively, giving her continuous emotional and physical support when she was suffering from exam depression. I consistently took 2-3 hour bus trips to lift her out of her foul smelling bed, give her company and affection, so that she could attain her degree. I did everything for her as she could barely function. She also mentioned that she wanted to causally date other people, but would try to make this relationship work. I was stunned and shocked. 
 We consequently stayed together. I asked her why she didn't just break-up with me and she replied: 'because when I saw you my heart melted.' Later on in conversations she admitted how stupid she had been and that she knew once she saw me that she would find me attractive. However, we started dating again and she kept withdrawing. However we were still having sex but her affection in general and energy were less enthusiastic, but not overly so. However, surprisingly, about five weeks from the initial outburst, she mentioned that we should get engaged and was continually hinting at it. She said it was her depression that made her say those awful things and she was sorry for putting me through all of that, She said she had questioned the relationship but realised that she loved me and that she did find me attractive. 
 Consequently, she broke up with me a week later after she fancied one of her colleagues and had chosen him over me. However, apparently, nothing came of this, and we met up to hand items back which we had borrowed from each other. Consequently, she had decided to break-up for good, stating that 'love isn't enough'. However, just before I got onto the train she said she had second thoughts and did I want to come back to her place. It was obvious throughout the conversation prior that she was attracted to me, and therefore that was the reason she didn't want to let me go. She said when I come back to hers we should sleep in separate beds, of which I agreed. She later admitted that all she wanted to do was hold my hand throughout the break-up talk.
 We got back to her place she started kissing me and threw herself at me. I was reluctant as she had already put me through quite a lot of emotional pain. But we had sex, she had initiated everything. She later admitted that she didn't fancy me because she had convinced herself that I had a massive belly forever expanding, though I am slender. I am 32 inch waist and I exercise frequently. She literally admitted that when she saw me come off the train that 'I was so slender.' And much more appealing and better looking than she had convinced herself. She later rang on the weekend and left a voicemail stating 'I don't want to break-up, I want to be together. I really love you.' After we got back together, she was telling me how I was the most important person in her life, and she wanted us to grow old together, and that I was 'gorgeous, very handsome.' Additionally she was telling me all these plans and events to attend in the future. As an aside, as I was hesitant to get back together, she wrote me a letter stating how she had made a massive mistake in dumping me, and how she couldn't bear losing me etc. She also gave me a lot of money and gifts to get back together. Crying over the phone twice after I was hesitant to say yes. 
 We dated for another month, this time she was incredibly physically and sexually affectionate, and on our last date she was literally all over me, giving me a huge amount of physical and flirtatious affection. Incidentally, I had hacked into her phone and she has been referring to me as 'the one and her best friend' and that she was desperate to get back with me as she loved me so much. 
 Consequently, a month after being back together she then dumped me because she fancied a guy at her new university, and said over the phone that 'she just doesn't feel the same way about me anymore.' I later found about a month later who this guy was. I do not say this in bitterness, but to highlight the disparity between the supposed ‘loss of attraction’ for me and her subsequent affection for another. I am quite good-looking, but not overly so, but this guy was very ugly. He had a massive beard, massive hair and glasses. Because she had made me so insecure about my attraction level I was initially very jealous about whom she could be dating -as I didn’t know. But when I found out I actually laughed to myself involuntarily. I couldn’t believe the hypocrisy. It really surprised me.
 However, later that month she reinitiated contact with me, telling me how, how she only dumped me because of a family argument (it is true, I refused to support her, because she was completely in the wrong), and that she wanted to forge her life and future with me and loves me so much, but will not date me because of the family issues. However, we met up to say goodbye (lame excuse from her I know!) and afterwards she kept constantly texting me to get together. 
 We got back together last weekend. She constantly kissed me and hugged me. She initiated sex, and she told me that she loved me. We had a lot of fun. She subsequently kept texting me and decided to be together. She also texted me stating how stupid she had been and that it was I who made her happy. She told me how handsome I was stating ‘I forget how handsome you are, just HOW handsome you are’, and that she erroneously has a mistaken image of me when we are not together: being obese and smelling of balls! The next night together she broke up with me, stating she loved me and cared for but had no sexual attraction for me. I was hurt and gobsmacked.  Is this borderline personality disorder? She seems to base every judgement and perception upon her most recent emotion. She is impulsive and is prone to hysteria and rages of temper seemingly from nowhere, with frequent emotional crises based on insignificant happenings. She has been diagnosed as bi-polar 2. Also she in violent anger accused a relative of being a Nazi and trying to get her sacked from her job, despite the fact that it was her own paranoia and erroneous thinking that made her angry in the first place.