(Note: I'm sorry if the length of this in any way deters you from reading, but it's necessary for you to understand my situation.)
 I currently reside with my parents, brother, sister and her son, my nephew. Ever since I could remember, my sister has been an abusive person (emotionally abusive) towards everyone in my family. My parents have tried taking her to counseling and therapy sessions when she was younger, but it was just impossible (she has an explosive and almost irrational temper). But we did, for a while, at least, just tried to cope with and work around her obvious mental incapacitation. 
 Now, however, she's in her mid-twenties and has a son. Which is becoming something to worry about, for various reasons. Firstly, my sister has always been very rebellious and it was no surprise that she would eventually end up with a boyfriend of similar fashion. And she did. And she became pregnant. And not shortly thereafter, the human wasteland left my sister and his nephew... completely. Nobody has seen him since shortly after my nephew's first birthday, which was about six years ago. 
 Second, my sister had an early onset of diabetes at about the age of eleven or twelve. And since then, my parents have struggled and suffered through the debilitation that present themselves years after, as a cause of her unwillingness to take her medications. She's now on disability and on the verge of losing one of her extremities. 
 Third, it became apparent after, I would say, the age of two that my nephew had some sort of learning disability. He didn't speak until very late, and is still having, at the age of seven, problems with speech and comprehension. He also has some behavioral problems, all of which have been hinted at being manifestations of autism/adhd, by school counselors (he is currently undergoing testing to determine what exactly he is suffering from).
 Now, the dilemma is that my parents have completely raised him, almost entirely, since he was born. My sister has and continues to almost completely ignore him. Like I said, she's on disability right now, and really has nothing to do, or nowhere--aside from her doctor's appointments--to be, so you would think that she would want to invest that time with her son... but nothing could be further from the truth. She would rather be talking on the phone or being on the computer than taking even the slightest interest in him. She has no patience for him.
 She does, sometimes, though, get these short realizations of how my parents are essential his parents as well, and she will panic and try to be his mother by promising to buy him or give him things. She'll baby him and treat him very sweetly, as if she truly loved him and cared for him, which is not only very disingenuous, but very far from reality.  
 The only problem with that, is that she expects, and I really don't know where she got this notion, that since she is his "mother," she expects my nephew to be her son. She expects him to respect and respond back to her as if she's had a mother/son relationship with him, which as I've said, isn't the case. So in other words, my sister expects to be able to reap all that comes from being a mother, except without ever having been one. 
 As a consequence of that, she becomes very angered and frustrated when things don't go her way with him. And she'll scream and threaten him and really shake him up. We all have (my parents, brother and myself) always try to address this with her, sometimes patiently, sometimes not so patiently. But with her having her own mental problems, we may as well be talking to a tree stump only capable of responding in the form of disrespectful back talk; it's impossible to deal with.  
 So as more time has gone on, my nephew has grown further apart from her. She, however, still feels inclined to instill her motherly will on him whenever she feels like. And since my nephew tends to listen less and less to her, her verbal abuse has worsened substantially and she's now following it with, what I am now considering to be, physical abuse.
 I really need advice as to what can be done. My parents and I have both talked about it, and know that she has mental problems and know that we just can't kick her out because of that. As horrible of a person as she was to me growing up, and although everything she does, and how I sometimes feel may indicate that she is a complete waste of air... I do realize that it's not her fault. And the situation now, with her having become really dependent on the family to help her out with caring for her (she has an I.V. and needs help dressing wounds), it would be completely out of character for us to throw her out on her own, which we know would inevitably end very badly for her. 
 We can't force her to go see a doctor about her (mental) problem. We can't even hint that maybe she needs some help without her feeling betrayed and consequently becoming histerical and verbally aggressive.   
 We don't know what we can do to remedy the problem.