Hey, so this may be a little long winded but I'll try make it short. Essentially I was diagnosed with depression this week after a period of about 2 months where I have had an MRI scan on my head and 'full' blood work done, to see why I'm feeling like this. Essentially my question is to do with the physical symptoms I've been experiencing and whether they really can be the symptoms of depression, and that the doctors aren't missing something key.
 So for about 2 months I've been feeling a lot of symptoms following a head injury on holiday, which sent me into a spiral of worry and nerves that there was something serious wrong with my head. I ended up going for an MRI scan which appeared negative. Since then my symptoms have continued, so I was given what the doctor described as full blood tests, all of which came back at normal level, except for a slightly low level in calcium levels. He then told me that he thought my symptoms were due to depression, however I'm still worried they aren't just that because they don't seem to be getting any better. (He prescribed me Citalopram 20mg, of which I took my first today)
 So, my symptoms, well essentially I have constantly painful muscles, especially when pressure is applied to them, and they are mainly in my legs and upper abdomen. The pain also comes in my joints. It can be agonising at times but usually only after pressure. I also get numbness and tingling in my lips, and the fingers on my left hand especially. (This also does occur in my head sometimes) My throat feels it has lumpy nodules on either side of my Adam's apple and I appear to have had swollen/manky looking tonsils for a few months now too, which occasionally affects my swallowing. I have have a general constant feeling of nausea/dizziness/lack of balance and a tightness in my breath that comes and goes.
 Now I do also have severe anxiety and believe the doctor is right in diagnosing me with depression but I want to know if these symptoms are normal and if they could be missing anything serious. I'm getting really worried and scared these could be the symptoms of cancer, or some disease like Lyme disease. I perhaps should mention I had lumps on my testicles that haven't gone, but have been scanned to tell me there is no cancer in them.
 Any help would be so much appreciated because I'm really at the end of my tether. (Should answer I'm a male, 19, with no disabilities, or allergies)