A few months ago, I found out that my husband(38) of almost 2 years cheated on me(26) with 2 different women during the our engagement, and that he was still in contact with one of the women whom he pent time London "as friends" last May without me knowing. When I found out, I packed my bags and booked a flight home, but in the end I decided to stay. He claims to have cut off contact with the other women now, and also claims that he hasn't slept with the one he spent time with in London since we've been married,but it doesn't feel like enough.
I moved out of the U.S.-away from my friends, family, and job to be with someone that I no longer trust or believe in. Why did I stay? I stayed because I do love him, and I also had an opportunity to go to graduate school this term. I started school thinking that I could handle it but that was a big mistake because everything from the affairs is still unresolved in my mind which makes it difficult to concentrate, and being around all of my young single classmates is starting to make me feel like I shouldn't be tied down to a lying cheat. 
 Background information...we've had a general lack of communication in certain aspects from the very beginning, he pretended to want kids when we were dating and changed his mind once he got me pregnant while we were engaged. He applied a lot of emotional pressure to get me to have an abortion and eventually I capitulated because I thought it was the only way to keep the relationship. Now I know that some of the cheating was going on right around the time I was still pregnant and that he was disregarding any impact on my health by having unprotected sex with these other women because he thought they were "clean". Of course, he has apologised profusely for everything. The thing is I'm not even angry with him anymore. I'm dissapointed and distrustful, but what I really want to know is if I'm wasting my time and just giving him another opportunity to pull the wool over my eyes.
I'm dealing with this on top of working full-time and being a part-time graduate student. I probably shouldn't have started school this term, but I don't think that I would still be here, in this country with him, if I hadn't.
He also offered to go to couple's counselling with me, but I don't have time for couple's counselling because none of the ones in the city we live in are available outside of normal office hours and I have a full-time office job. My husband's job offers more flexibiity so he could see a counsellor on his own if he wanted to, but he refuses to go by himself because he see the point since he doesn't think he has a problem anymore and "just wants to be with me" because "being married is different" from just being in a commited relationship with someone you love. I don't see how a person's propensity towards cheating would suddenly change once they are married if they cheat while they are engaged. This is my first marriage, but I'm his 3rd wife. His first 2 marriages ended due to other factors than cheating. 
 We had a huge argument last night. It started off as a question from me about whether he was in contact with any of his ex's who might want somthing more, then he got offended. This led to arguments about all sorts of unresolved issues. My husband told me that he was angry that I hadn't acknowledged that he had changed, or how much it had cost him to give up his friendships with his ex-girlfriends to make me more comfortable.It hasn't even been a full 4 months since I found out about all of this,so how am I supposed to acknowledge that he's changed when I don't know that he in fact has changed?
 My husband believes that the fact that he able to cut off his sexual relationships with other women before he married me and isn't still sleeping around, should indicate that he has a different mind-set and therefore has changed. Maybe those things would matter more if he had been honest with me about everything before actually marrying me. If I hadn't just learned about all of this a few months ago, then I could have made an informed decision...and maybe I would have still married him with my eyes wide open. And, maybe the fact that he met with one of his ex's for a few hours in london without telling me wouldn't have pissed me off so much. Actually, I think I would have still been pissed off about that meeting because it was with one of the women he cheated on me with and I just don't think that was a considerate or honest thing to do.
 Last night he tried to convince me that it was not normal for him to have to blow off his ex's, and said that he did it to make me more comfortable. So, you see how we have a fundamental problem here. I don't trust him because he cheated, and I don't think it's normal to want to be friends with someone that you cheated on your partner with regardless of whether anything is still going on.
 My husband has a lot of emotional baggage and feels the need to reply to emails from any ex that contacts him. None of his ex's, except the one in London and his 2nd wife even knew he was married to me before I found out about the affair because he claims that he didn't want to upset them or ruin the friendships and he didn't think it was any of their business. Now, it's not like he was exchanging romantic emails with any of them. I've seen some of the emails and they were friendly, and whenever someone tried to cross the line (by flirting or saying they missed him) he ignored that part of their email in his reply; but I think I'm stuck on the principal. He was still in contact with these women for however long and they didn't know he was married. When my ex's email me, as they do from time to time, and ask me what is new with my life, my marriage is one of the first things I mention in my emails. I don't do it to be hurtful; i just see the disclosure as an indicator that any emails exchanged between us are going to be non-romantic in nature. Meanwhile, my husband actually apologized and wrote "I hope you understand why I didn't tell you" in an email to one of his ex's. Another one of his ex's, from before we met, emailed him last month after 5 years. she asked him about his move because she'd found out about him moving abroad online. He said that he told her that he was married in his reply and that was the end of it.
 Even if that's true...I think the fact that he wouldn't have necesarily mentioned the fact that he was married if she had emailed him 5 months ago speaks volumes (not in a good way).
 I'm unhappy about being married to someone who hasn't acted like he actually wanted to be married in the past. I'm unhappy about the cheating, the unprotected sex, the lying, and what the fact that he didn't tell his ex's about our marriage implies. Are there any men out there who can shed some light on this? If an old ex contacted you after however long, then would you feel obligated to tell them that you were married? And, would you ever think it was okay to spend time with someone that you cheated on your wife, or fiance with (even if the sexual part of your relationship with this person was definitely over)?
 I feel conflicted because I love him, even now that I know how badly he has treated me. I also know that love may not be enoug, and. I can't afford to make any more emotionally driven decisions where he is concerned just because there's a part of me that has unconditional love for him. I have to make a smart choice. The smart choice involves hurting someone I love to save myself from even more stress and the heartache that this relationship entails: myself. Maybe my husband really believes that he will be faithful to me from now on because of the fact that he cut off his sexual relationships with other women before he actually married me,but I don't believe that he won't ever cheat on me again. Is being married somehow fundamentally different in terms of cheating?