Well Today college work, all everything was well . I went to college in the morning. And returned back. I had a very lovely sleep for long hours during that period body moved but not voilently. What happens is I was dreaming,  And move happens according to dream. Dream starts from thoughts and thoughts means pitutary glad. I was dreaming very nice, Mean time , i tried to move one hand in a dream to climb up the tree. Then my hand moved in real. Things starts from thoughts and brings action. Similary step by step leg, hands moved according to dream, I try to walk in dream and leg moves in real., So body movement are also different. But it did not repeat. Things happens according to dream. But i had a very good sleep i felt fresh after sleep. I m taking the 100 mg. Another made me reaction or what too lazy happens. How to face that time when i am leaving 100 mg of seroquel? So odd symptoms comes because it is related to mind. work was good. active , energy comes. Today paranoid was nil. But everyday some may symptons .  But i scare to leave seroquel . It matches to my harmone and i found it very very powerful.  to me. It made me fine in the past having so many problems. seroquel was amazing. Well My friend had also same problem , he was taking seroquel, doctor changed to another . Reaction happened and he was hospitalized till 6 months. I really dont understand why medicine change needed. by the way everywhere same rule, everywhere doctor changes the medicine, And sometime reaction happens and some hospitalized. Well doctor used to say doctor even dont knows does it fits or not and everybody is different. It needs to be tried but medicine changing time is very dangerous. I have proof my friend got huge reaction and hospitalized. I think they give us harmone. If matches exactly really amazing feeling gives, so much power gives, disable condition also capable makes but didnot match means a to z damages. Thus i scare medicine changing i know my friend hospitalized. i even faced reaction twice. But not dangerous like my friend. One time 2 years before they try to change to another and now . 2 years before was really hard. This time was lazy slow, inactive. But all over the world same formula applies. all doctor give one doze at first and tells to decrease slowly and increase another medicine slowly. In this way they make us shift from one medicine to another. one decreasing and another increasing. All have same formula. This disease i found total same. total , method and style is absolutely same and universal. I think all technically . i mean even thinking is same. I read others post 100% same thinking i had before. All total. Those extra thinking is given technically naturally those thinking doesnot comes. So during one period no matter how much one try they cant get rid of it until they wont cross those stages. There is nothing difference i found. Too much time consuming. tough. But method is same for all. Medicine is different whatever the fits to them but technology is totally exact to all.