We have been married for 6 years. She is typically the best wife a man can ask for. She is very nice most of the time and is a hard worker. She has a second personality that is angry and very mean. I discovered that whenever she got into that second personality, I just need to shut up. No matter what I say, she accuses me of starting the argument. She will then start blaming her anger on other things I said or did that did not seem to bother her at the time they happened. One time she came up with 6 different reasons she was angry throughout the evening. Each time, she forgot the previous reasons she was angry.
 Sometimes this anger will last for days, sometimes it will go away quickly. Just today she was holding hands with me telling me how wonderful I was. She started talking about the weather, and how cold it was (75 degrees) I made the "Mistake" of telling her that I thought that it was warm today.
 Wrong answer. Went into a rage about how grumpy I am, 
 I had 2 kids living with me, and she chased them both out of the house with her sudden rages. We can't have any pets, because she blames them for anything they might do in the future. They also trigger her into anger moments.
 I have found that just being quiet when she gets into a rage, has the best results. By saying anything gives her more ammo to get angry with me. Even if I say something nice, she will say that I am only being nice because I was trying to hide something bad I did. 
  It is very very tempting to try to defend myself when she verbally attacks me, but it is of no use. She has no reality. She will make up things that never happened. She will call me names like lazy, not loving, selfish, angry etc, when in the previous minute I was a hard worker, romantic, unselfish and nice. 
 She has an appointment with a therapist next week. About 4 years ago she started seeing a therapist, but all in a sudden would not go, and got angry with me for making her go previously.
 Anyone have any more advice? I love her, and hate to see her in this state. I hope the therapist helps, but if it does not, anyone have any ideas or suggestions on how to deal with her?
 Thanks