I'm 24, been diagnosed with Genaralized Anxiety Disorder and ADHD for about 4 years now. About 2 years ago began experiencing symptoms of what I thought was a heart attack (radiating pain in left arm, shortness of breath, chest pain). Got the checked about 3 times to find nothing is wrong (I'm a fairly fit guy, 6'0, 160, but do have a tendency to drink too much, which I have cut back dramatically on in recent months, and a history of heavy cannabis use, which I no longer use). Of course these pains, which lead to further symptoms, shaking, sweating, nausea, were good ol' panic attacks. I have my own coping mechanisms for these events as of now, and although these pains and discomfort still make me uneasy and set me into "heart attack" mode at times, they rarely, if ever, set me into full on panic attack.
 So I guess if its not one thing, its another, but I have recently been dwelling over the thought that I may eventually develop Schizophrenia. As far as I know, I don't have any family history of it, but I have recently read research suggesting that even without family history, schizophrenia can still develop, and is found to be directly linked with genes that contribute to ADHD and Parkinsons(?) (not exactly positive about the latter). Seeing that my anxiety has been increasing over the past few years, development into panic attacks, and past drug and alcohol abuse (I guess I didn't mention using mushrooms on about 4-5 occasions), has me scared. Sometimes I just feel like I'm going to lose it! Not in the sense of having a panic attack; heart thumping, sweating, etc, but in the sense that my head just feels kind of foggy, or strange.
 I'm inclined to think that this is just my anxiety jumping from one topic to the next: "okay so you're not having heart attacks, but you never know....you might develop schizophrenia!" But knowing my past and looking at my personality just has me apprehensive. I can sometimes be kind of reclusive, get real "hooked" on certain projects, and for as much as I like being around people, I don't ever make the effort to try and make many connections. Sure, I have friends, but I rarely talk to one every single day, ask them to come over, go out to lunch, or what have you. Some days are better than others, in terms of my sociability.
 Lately, when I've been walking around, the thought of it seems to consume my mind. I think "what if I lost it? what would it be like to believe that the person sitting across from me is plotting against me?" To assert the question leads me to "try it out" and I become immediately uncomfortable and terrified, and shun the thought (rightfully so) from my mind.
 Ultimately, I don't have the hallmark traits, auditory or visual hallucinations, disorganized thoughts, rambling speech, what have you. I tend to be a disorganized person in general though, and sometimes feel like I lose touch with people. In my mind I someitmes think "what could that person honestly want to do with me?" So even if this is all attributed to my f*****n anxiety, I wonder, has anyone else ever had this problem? It's so funny that when I find out that my heart is in reality okay, that I'm now more worried about something that is even more difficult to pin down (mental health/disorder), leaving me with more what-ifs. BLEH, this feels maddening!