Hello,
 My name is Lance and I am having a very hard time listening to the doctors and thearpist regarding my health.  A little background:
Over the last 6 months, I had a bunch of very stressful events occur such as our house flooding and taking 3 months to fix, my wife having medical issues, my dog being put to sleep, starting a new job, wife got in a minor auto accident.  My dog being put to sleep was the last event that occured before I started having all of these physical symptoms.  On Monday March 19th, it started by me loosing my appeitite completely and becomming very exhausted with no energy.  As of today, I still dont have it back (4/9/07).  At the worst point two Saturdays ago, I slept half the day.  A few days the following week, I had a harder time than normal wanting to get up and one day didn't get dressed. I am not sitting at home crying all the time and therefore have problems thinking I have depression.   The main issue I struggle with:  Did I do these things because I am depressed or because something is physically wrong with me.  I went to the ER 4 times to be checked out.  The first time I got a CAT scan of my brain and was sent home since the reults were good.  The 2nd time, I had a complete blood count done along with liver, kindey, and thyroid.  All these test came back ok and I was sent home. Now, my stomach is sour and upset.  I feel like throwing up on occasion.
 I keep obsessing about my physical symptoms thinking something is wrong with me.  The doctors keep telling me that I am ok and that the depression, anxiety, obsession over symptoms, and worrying are causing my body to have symptoms.  
 My wife doesn't fully understand what I am going through.  I needed her very bad this week.  She elected to help her brother move out of state instead and left for the week.  I had a very hard time with her going as I already was having a hard time dealing with all of this and now felt that my wife didn't care enough to stay.  I felt affraid and alone.
  Help me,
 Lance