So I have a stomach disorder, In which I get an injection of Remicade to stabilize it. 
 I'm a bit confused if this drug is causing what I've been experiencing lately. 
 Basically, I had noticed how I've been getting more aggressive, depressed, angry, etc for the literal dumbest reasons. I was always the nicest kid in school, (Literally) so it didn't make sense to me. So following the week where I was supposed to get my remicade, I started to see when it wore off, if these symptoms disappeared. So during the last four days before the infusion (it was basically worn off, as I felt stomach pain.) I noticed that (mostly) I wasn't really mad or depressed or aggressive.  During the injection, I also checked to see if I could feel anything different. I defiantly fell my mood dropping and just wanting to like isolate myself.
 My symptoms have been getting way worse.
    * not sure if this is bipolar, because apparently bipolar phases are supposed to last weeks, but mine are rather rapid.) 
 It started off with daily getting sad, angry, and rarely happy.
 Every day each symptom would be getting worse.
 Today something happened which I don't know how to explain really well. I was mad at the smallest thing coming home from school, and about 30 minutes after that I entered something similar to a manic/hyperactive phase. 
 I felt so energetic and I started punching stuff, running around, and then I ran outside. It felt different than anything I've ever felt. I wasn't just like happy, I wanted to do crazy stuff. I literally ordered $200 shoes without caring... 
 This ended about an hour later.
 I then entered I don't know what to call it. 
I felt like I was high on drugs. Everything slowed, I felt like a buzz (high buzz), I got paranoia over nothing, and sounds got very specific, and like detailed like. 
 That ended an hour and 30 minutes later.
 Then I entered a normal state.
 I really really am confused. The FDA doesn't have warnings for Remicade causing any of this, and couldn't find anyone else with similar experiences. 
 Help....
 P.S. I'm not on any other drugs or alcohol besides Remicade.