My name is Jessica. I am 15 years old and believe that I have been struggling with anxiety symptoms since I was a child. However, I have learned to be able to channel out everything until this year especially. I'm currently in my sophomore year of highschool and have began to withdraw a lot from activities I normally enjoy and all of my friends other than one. 
 There have been many different feelings and symptoms I have been encountering making believe I have some sort of issue, but then again I feel this could be just normally teenager stuff and I don't want to over-react. My older sister was told by my doctor that she has a social anxiety and I feel that a lot of attention has been on her. I am afraid of speaking up to my mom and asking to go to the doctor's because I don't want to make it seem like a cry for attention. When I get stressed out I don't think that my mom sees how much it takes a toll on me. I feel like it is something that I can't just shake by going and doing something "relaxing," nothing relaxes me. I am even a bit afraid to go to the doctor's because I am scared of him telling me there is something terribly wrong with me and that I am going to die. Since the beginning of September, I have not been feeling myself and I have no idea where it has come from. I cry very often and I have become extremely unstable, and it feels like no one can relate. My sleeping habits have always been bad, but they have gotten extremely unbearable. I have a really hard time falling asleep at night and even when I do, when I wake up in the morning it feels like I haven't slept at all. When something bad happens at school, I go home and dwell on it for hours. It feels like the littlest things upset me that others wouldn't even think twice about. Sometimes I get scared I'm even crazy for worrying as often as I do. I have been developing headaches and I have not been eating properly at all. When I go through my periods of depression I don't want to eat at all, but then when I am with my friends, I am so happy it almost feels like euphoria. Then after a few good days I just go back down. I have nightmares quite often and especially I have lately had extremely disturbing dreams including being sexually abused and neglected by all of my loved ones. I put all of my efforts into my schoolwork and even with good grades I still feel like I am doing as well as I should be. I feel no matter what I do, I can't impress anyone. My friends, my parents, my teachers, especially myself. I feel like no one cares about me and quite frankly I don't feel like I care about anything or anyone at this point either. I have lost all of my self- confidence and I have just all around become extremely unhappy with everything about myself. At this point, I don't know what I should do- I have felt like this my whole life but it has been extremely potent this schoolyear. 
 Should I talk to some one, or do I just need to suck it up?