I recently broke up from a relationship with my babys father n i were attemptin to work things out. There is a big question as to who needs help in my point of view. In his point of view he has no kind of problem. I can accept that i may need help im just not sure where ? i dont know if im bipolar or have self-esteem issues or just ADD ? Everytime my boyfriend n i disagreed on something i felt as if i coulndt speak up at all because he would completely blow up on me with a bad temper. He never attempted to hit me he hit the walls and threw things like a maniac it was as if he was a completely different guy. He said i was a crazy ***** because i didnt feel comfortable with him being too close to another female which i knew was trying to hit on him...also not only that when i got really frustrated inside because he was not trying to be there for his son, he got so angry saying mean things that just put me down. im not goin to lie but a few times i did go off on him because he put me down like that..i felt i was becoming the girl that would take **** and not say anything... i did it to avoid arguments and because i love him but one day he completely blew up on me and in front of the baby i told him the babys here why are u acting like that  no ones yelling> he just seemed to not care ...i on the other hand also got frustrated with him on different occassions because he didnt want to bring me around his friends ever since our first break up he lost control n pushed me away so he started yelling at me and i slapped him i felt i had to slap him out of it! then when i was pregnant he said he would take me so together we would buy baby stuff but he never kalled to say anything and i called his fone n he turned it off and i had to kall angry to his friends fone and got even more upset to hear he was around girls at a skate park with the guys...yes i ended up cussing at his friend so that was two years ago and this year he just didnt want to tell his friends he was back with me only one knew we would hang out.. but he never wanted to bring baby n i around him...so i felt angry and mad ..and when i questioned him he would lie about where he waas and if he was with girls then he would even get upset if i drove wrong...I DONT UNDERSTAND WHAT IS HAPPENING ACCORDING TO HIM I NEED HELP BUT WAT EXACTLY DO I HAVE AND I KNOW HE NEEDS HELP AS WELL...