Hi There, 
 I am 27 mother of one child in a very loving relationship and for the first time in my life I am experiencing being treated properly with love and respect.  I was sexually abused by my mums dad my grandfather from the age of 10 up until 14, I went to live with my grandparents as my mum and step dad were abusive towards eachother on a regular basis and It was starting to effect me as a child growing up, I could no longer stand living in domestic violence and having both an abusive mother and step-father.
 My mother agreed for me to go and live with my grandparents, and thats then where the sexual abuse by my grandfather began.  I had the strength to speak out after years of going through the abuse, and to my horror when I spoke out my mum told me that my grandfather had sexually abused her over 20 years previous when she was the similar age.
 I still to this day have a lot of anger and hurt built up inside me for my mother, as I cannot believe that she sent me to live with my grandfather knowing that he has abused her as a child, It is something that I find very very difficult to come to terms with, (if I ever will).
 My relationship with my mother since me speaking out about the abuse has never been the same, she constantly makes me feel guilty about everything in my life that I do, she is very very critical of everything, she puts me down, humiliates me, comes into my own home and changes my home around to how she thinks it should be.  She makes comments about the clothes that I wear, the relationships I have, my own parenting skills when I know that I am a fantastic mother, I just feel totally controlled by her and that she just smothers me to the point were I avoid her like the plague!!!
 It is only now at the age of 27 that I am starting to really come to terms with what happened to me growing up as a child, but whilst I am coming to terms with this I know that none of this would have happened to me if it wasnt for my mother.....I keep thinking she exposed me to Domestic Violence, which lead me to go and live with my grandparents to then lead to Sexual Abuse, after this because I had the courage to speak out and take my grandad to court over what happened, (which please bare in mind my mother refused to take stand in court and give evidence it happened to her) my mother then went on to Emotionally Abuse me since the age of 14.
 Sorry that this is long winded, but I really want to know why my mother has done this to me, and known what long lasting effects this would have on me for the rest of my life, a mothers role is to protect her own and I feel like all my mother has wanted is for me to suffer worse than she ever has because I have experienced three lots of different kinds of abuse, which I just want to add the most psychological damaging to me is the Emotional Abuse as this has left me with low self-esteem, always questioning myself, not trusting my own gut reactions, why could anybody do such a thing?????
 I look forward to your replies.
 Many thanks 
 Claire