There is lots has gone and is currently going on with me.  I will try to be as short and as clear as possible.
 I have been struggling with crash down for 4 years. I had bad sleeping habits for like from early teens to sometimes even now- like sleeping late around 12-2  am.  From ages 17-19 I was sleeping late and going to school without breakfast most of the time. 
and this eventually led to my mental illness anxiety, clinical major psychotic depression, and OCD for 5 years now.  
 My crash down is better than before but I have not recovered from mental illness. 
First time I was treated with during Winter 2007 tripletail, seroquol, effexor for 9 months.
 I came off medication and I felt so drained that I could not do anything over Summer of 2008.
 After being off medication for 4 months my illness came back in Fall 2008 and I received inection of cojectin, copixol, and ativan, and then physiatrist prescribed celexa and seroquol, and then switched from seroquol to olonzapine because serouqol was not working well.  Doctor said I have to take these for at least a year, and might forever.  I did take these for a year, and Summer of 2009 was so weird- I ate breakfast, took celexa and rest, bowl movement then rest, lunch and then rest or nap and rest after dinner and go to sleep after olonzapine makes me sleep after 4 hours.  I don’t know why this was happening and neither did doctor.
 I came off celexa as said by physiatrist, and took olonzapine as required, but if I don’t take olonzapine for long time say 1 month my symptoms reappear and I have to take olonzapine to help me.
  I have difficulty falling asleep and staying asleep.  I also have low energy, no drive and aches and pains, physical injuries not healing and thus chronic inflammation and poor sleep when I don’t take medication olonzapine.
 I have tried natural remedies as prescribed by a naturopath like St. John Wort, GABA, adrenum for adrenal gland fatigue. melatoin, B-vitamins, vitamin- B6, homeopathic remedies.
 Adreum, GABA, melatoin helped me to some extent.  When I am on them I am relaxed but it’s too relaxing.  On top of this when I am done with these products my condition shows up again.
 I have read about SAMe for sleep and mood.  Has anyone tried it?
 I am afraid that I have to these psychotropics forever.  This is what physiatrist say, which I doubted at first now it is becoming realty.  The longer I stay on olonzapine, the greater chances of side effects especially diabetes which runs in my family and other dangerous side effects which they say nothing will happen since you are only 23.
 I asked my GP to do some blood test for inflammatory markers like cortisol, homocysteine, but she is like this stuff is for old people- “You are too young for this.”  If  I am too young why I have no energy, poor sleep concentration, injuries not healing, inflammation, poor circulation and they don’t heal by themselves?  I visited her in February and she said “ I can’t help you much.”  I was thinking to check these out as well- DHEA, Testosterone, C-reactive protein,  and low blood. Imbalances in these are shown to cause depression as well. After last visit I really resent seeing her again.
 I tried looking finding doctors that will take me, but they are full and are not accepting any new patients.  It’s frustrating.
 What should I do?  I already have healthy active lifestyle. I eat pretty clean, avoid too much carbs and sugar, good fats, and protein.  I can only do light exercise like walking or some sports like tennis and basketball with little running because of chronic ankle pain after exercise and sometimes during.
 I am getting some acupuncture and is somewhat helpful as I don’t really see any big improvements.  Little is better than nothing.  The doctor said it will take at least 10 treatments to see big improvements. She also said your habits are why I am struggling with many health issues physical and mental.
 What can I do besides acupuncture to get going?  I want to feel energetic when I wake up and want to have desire and energy to be productive- study or work.   I dropped out of school because of my illness, low energy, sleep problems, pains etc.
 I know there is no easy solution but anything is better than nothing.  I have also tried multi-vitamin mineral supplement, glutamine, whey protein, probiotic for constipation, Cal/Mag, Vitamin D. Omega 3, Vit. C, and nothing works.  I am sensitive to winter and can’t do much compared to summer.  I rest in beginning summer and then I get better overall in last few months of summer.  I had SAD light this winter and it did help.  Looks like serious SAD.
 Finances are an issue as well.  I was thinking about counselling but just thinking about going there just stresses me out.
 I was thinking to take supplements after reading about them like L-Carnitine, Alpha Lipoic Acid and Taurine for energy, strength and may get me going.  After much reading L-Carntine is better absorbed through food. Aceylated- Carnitine, which is another form is more bio available but problem is it carries fatty acids that comes with supplement instead of using fat of body.  
 After reading much about ALA,  I am thinking to give this a try since it really applies to me.  I know it may sound desperate, but I really had enough of “can’t do much” for last 6 years.  It detoxifies liver and clogged liver and liver strain also cause depression, fatigue, poor circulation and etc.
 What else can I do?