My mother had told me about a year ago, that when I was a baby, she wouldnt leave me alone with my dad and that he would always signal red flags with her when it came to molesting me. She told me that one day he asked if he could take a bath with me, and made the water very murky, she found it alarming so she said no and then he got angry and left. She also told me when I came back from visiting him I would act very strange and distant. When I was three she took me to the doctors to find out if I had been raped, but she said that they couldn't tell.
My dad was very physically abusive to my mother when she was with him, he had caused her five miscarriages and I she had to hide from him when I was in her tummy because she didnt want to loose another baby, the only thing I really remember from when I was young was hiding under a coffee table while my dad flipped over a larger table that had beer bottles, ashtrays and other glasses on it, then I just remember seeing him pick up my mother and carry her into their room and her screaming and kicking him so she could get me and leave. 
That's it though..I am 17 now, but can't remember ANYTHING whatsoever before the age of 13. And I just don't understand it...
My dad was a very bad alchoholic, and so he wasn't in a big percentage of my life..he had left me when I was probably just 1 or 2. I also remember one night when he had taken a lot of sleeping pills, he wondered off in the house and i had to help him carry himself back to bed..my brothers laughed as did i at the time. I was probably about 6/7. I would always take care of him when I was with him as much as I could. And whenever i visited him i would always sleep with him because he was my dad and i didnt want to sleep with anyone else, but his clothes would always be gone in the morning. He told me how that would always happen, no matter where he was. Off that subject, him caused me to develop a abandonment complex I've come to discover, and has always been a big issue with me. One question always comes up: why?
In 2001 he was sentenced to life in prison. And that has taken, and is still taking, it's toll on me.
-
Forgive me for telling you all my life story, but it all leads up to the real question I have. 
 I want to know if he did molest me. I know it, I can feel it in my gut, that something happened to me when I was little. But I...can't bring myself to confront him about it. The last fight I remember when I had hidden under the table, happened because my mother confronted my dad about it. She was beaten because of me, and that I'll never be able to forget.
 How do you remember a past that seemed like it never even happened?? It drives me insane. 
I have been molested 4 times. And I don't want to sound dumb, but I feel like I have a sign on my back, that says "hey, I can't say no! You can have your way!" I feel like I'm just like a magnet for those kinds of people..and another odd thing that leads me to believe something happened when I was little, I don't know if this would seem odd to any of you, but when I lost my virginity to my boyfriend, these was no pain or blood involved. The whole "cherry" thing..didn't happen. Excuse the inappropriateness.
 I guess what I'm getting at in the end is what should I do? I want to remember. I need to. I need to know. But I don't want to confront my own father and have the answer be yes. I'm just scared. And..I am not accusing him. There is just so much evidence for it, but then again..he is my dad. I'm just on a teeter-totter about this. But I'm not saying "oh! He did it. He did."
 Opinions an thoughts, any at all are appreciated. I'm sorry this is so long and I hope none of you think I'm just looking for attention. I know most of you have problems that are mug bigger than this..and I'm so very sorry for what you are going through..and I wish I could help all of you. I can only hope and pray that you get what you deserve, a better life.
 Thank you
Hana