I'm a college student right now, sophomore. I used to be so enthusiastic and looked forward to going to school (back in my freshman and early sophomore years). This term, for reasons I don't know, i am not as motivated as i was before. If i had the chance i'd rather cut class, but i know it's wrong and that my parents pay so much for my good education. It's not that i'm doing bad this term, but i did fail a major subject last term and it really made me more pessimistic and lonely especially since i know i'm going to be separated from my few friends if i don't catch up with our flowchart. And i'm not really that sociable so I think i'll find it hard to make friends if ever i don't.
 I live alone in my apartment, and it's really quiet here. Sometimes i like the silence, but sometimes it's so deafening  i start having really negative thoughts. I don't plan on hurting myself though, but really sometimes i fall asleep while thinking these bad thoughts and I wake up in the morning feeling really really awful and in turn makes me more unmotivated. I don't really want to tell my family that I think i might have some sort of mild depression since they know I'm just really negative like this, and they think it's normal. They really do their best and they call me every night and during these times i feel happier. After the calls though it becomes quiet again and it all starts coming back.
 I have exams this week, currently finished 2 out of five and so far i'm doing well. Tomorrow's one of the subjects i don't really like and i'm just really trying to study to not think of anything bad again, and i think it's working but i also think it's not. The bad thing is just right now, before i started writing this, I started feeling really really tired and weak, and my appetite has gone down and  i only forced myself to eat my food to prepare for the long night ahead. I wish it works or else I might not be able to pass the exam.
 Can anyone tell me if this negativity is just part of the normal thought cycle? Or is it some sort of mild depression . And what can I do to lessen the times when i think bad thoughts? I try listening to music but one can only play how many tunes before she gets tired of it as well. I've also tried texting my friends but they're normally busy as well.