On January 12, 2016 I woke up in ICU with 12 fractures to my skull. I had a hemmoragic stroke due to the bleeding in my brain. The last thing I remember was eating dinner with my husband. My husband states that he went outside to smoke a cigarette while I finished eating dinner with our two year old. He states that when he came inside I was seizing on the floor and blood was pouring out of both ears so he called 911. I don't remember any of this. The paramedics took me to the nearest hospital and from there a helicopter was called to take me to a special hospital that dealt with the traumatic brain injuries and that had neurosurgeons on staff. I spent 6 days in ICU. No one was there to visit me. No one was there to confort me. I had no memory of the fall of the day of January 12th. So every time I woke up in ICU alone I cried and asked if my family was dead? I thought I got into a bad car accident. I thought no one was there because they were killed and no one knew what was going on. The truth is that my husband just sat at home with my 2 year old and didn't tell ANYONE what happened to me. I stopped breathing two time on the helicopter ride!!!! My mom and dad live 5 minutes from my husband an I. He didn't tell a sole where I was or what happened to me. I finally saw him when I was released from the hospital. I had to to call my own family and try to explain what happened. I was completely paralysed on the right side of my face. I could barely talk. I couldn't drink anything alone or feed myself and he just left me in the room. I was hallucinating from all the meds. It was awful. 2 months later I met the paramedics who came to the house and took me to the hospital where I was medi-vac'd by the helicopter. The paramedics told me that when they arrived to my house I was seizing on the kitchen floor alone while my 2year old screamed on the floor beside me in my blood. They said he was scared to death and my husband was just chilling outside smoking a cigarette. I was seizing so bad that the paramedics had to hold me down. I can't imagine my little boy having to see his mommy like that with no one to comfort him. I've had several doctors tell me that 12 skull fractures as severe as mine could not have come from me simply falling on the linoleum floor and carpet in my house. Then my husbands strange behavior during and afterwards. I'm scared. I don't remember anything about January 12th. My question to you guys is this; do u think my husband hurt me and then pushed me to the ground? What could have happened to me that day? Why didn't he tell my family how sick and hurt I was? I was in ICU for a week!! All by myself!!!! Scared to death!!! What do u Guys think?