He's dead now, but I slightly wish he was still alive...So that he could pay for what he used to do to me. He was sexually, emotionally & physically abusive.
 The abuse went on until I was 18 and moved out of the house. I haven't talked to him ever since I left. Very long time for a daughter to not talk to her father. It's been almost ten years now. 
 I remember how I used to do nice things for him just to get him to love me, but nothing I did was good enough. 
 I still recall being a nine year old girl, and I made him a card for father's day and giving him a box of dark chocolates, his favorite candy. 
 He chuckled and smiled at me, and at first he said "Thank you, I love it sweetie." I smiled, then responded, "Really?" and he said, "No, it's actually very pathetic. I hate it." 
 He then took my card and ripped it. He took the box of chocolates, tore it open and dumped the chocolates into the trash. I started sobbing, and he laughed and said that I was "A cry baby."
  These kinds of things happened whenever I got him a gift. Even as a teenager I still got him gifts. Another one of these events I recall was when I was fourteen -- an incident I'll never forget. For his birthday, I had made him a cake. I had put my heart into making that cake for him in my millionth attempt to satisfy him to get a hug or a kiss. 
 He told me that he loved it and that it was sweet. He was licking off the frosting. I smiled, and for a while I was very happy. But after he finished licking off the frosting a few minutes later, he said to me: "That was delicious, but not anymore", and he took the cake and threw it onto the ground and told me: "You have to clean this up, but first, come to my room. I need to show you something."
 Falling for his horrible prank, I followed him to his bedroom. The first thing he did was he told me to sit on the bed, then close my eyes. And so I did. As my eyes were closed, he undressed himself. Once he told me to open my eyes he was butt naked. He then told me to undress myself. I didn't want to, but I obeyed his demand, in fear that he would beat me. After I undressed, he had made me perform oral sex on him. 
 After he was satisfied, he took me by the legs and licked my privates. It was also painful as well, because he did bite me down there as well. 
 There were other sick things that occurred that day as well. He molested me for perhaps five or six hours until my mother came to pick me up. 
 I didn't tell her anything. I didn't tell anyone anything. I'm embarrassed to tell anyone. I'm afraid they won't believe me, they will think I want attention. What if it's my fault? If only I had done something to escape the situation instead of acting so helpless?