I am sorry  if this is long but it is a bit involved. Three years ago I had a bone scan performed after complaining of pain in my side for some times to my GP and pulmonary specialist my 6th rib lit up in the scan and the pulmonary still didnt want to do anything because he said I had probably broke it with my bad cough and that was what was showing. A CT scan and the attempt to obtain a needle biopsy showed a mass on the 6th rib too had to obtain a sample. A surgeon removed the entire rib. The surgical site herniated and I had it repaired a year later and noticed gradually worsening pain in my side again. I figured scar tissue and didnt complain. Then a lymph node enlarged under my left arm, I went for my mammogram and they got very official and also performed a diagnostic mam with a ultrasound and said it was okay. That was months ago the lymph is larger and i have enlarged lymphs in my groin on both sides. In a completely different health issue I saw a neuro at Mayo clinic in MN and he ran tests for antibodies that would pick up antibodies to cancer cells before regular testing can normally find it. My ACh R  neurounal  ganglionic Ab S came back elevated> 0.10  with> 0.02 normal .  I guess it can mean several other things also, ALS, and Myasthenia Gravis but my home nuerologist said he had ruled out ALS in his mind a while back and my GP had tested me for MG. so the cancer word comes back into play. I apologize for mispelled words or possible inaccuracies, I do not have my tests in front of me they are on the computor I am typing on and I dont want to loose this page if I switch back and forth. I saw my GP again yesturday and asked him what do we do I  have this test and no answers from up north the neuro up there has requested a consult with a autoimun neuro and he is not in until next week. I am in more pain from my side, a burning pain directly below my rib, I can not lay down flat at night it ends up making me hurt incredibly , this is so oddly similar to a few years ago when I had the last tumor. My GP is ordering a bone scan and I am pretty freaked out. Anybody else ever had this test and found it to be accurate? Input and handholding would be appreciated. Thank you.