I want to hear all your thoughts on these problems.
The young girl (18yrs old now) that lives with us was informed by her mother that she was sexually abused between the ages of 7-9. The mom has spoken about it in the open citing he was arrested for this crime for all these years. Just recently her mother emailed her that he had been arrested again.
I searched all the local newspapers where he lives, and all the public records on arrests and pretty much any site I can find to get information on this man to no avail. No newspaper articles, no arrest reports.
I did find one man with a very similar name in his state but, he was arrested for his sexual offence in 2004... Much later than he would have been arrested, if her mother had pressed charges.
This man is about the right age and the only one with the correct last name in his state with charges. However his charge was with a young boy and not a girl as well. 
There are allot of things that don’t match up! The girl says she does not remember any of it at all only what her mother says... and she says she does not remember ever going to court, having a councilor, or anything at all that would have brought her into a court room setting. 
Her mother says it was handled before it reached a court. Is that possible with child abuse allegations? And even still why didn’t the hearing officer demand she have counseling? 
I have been wondering if her mother is lying about this. I don’t know why she would do it but, things are pointing that way. 
Mom has proven to be unstable now and in the past.... could she be that bad lying to her daughter all these years and making her remember something that never took place? The girl says she does not remember anything at all! I would think that by age 9 you would remember at least some things.
I myself have been abused and I remember everything. But, I know other people block things out.
Mom has also used this reason to keep the girl from having a boyfriend for any length of time, locks her in her room with the lock on the outside. Calls her every 10 minutes to make sure she is doing what she is supposed to do.
The girl was only allowed to close her bedroom door when she was changing! It had to remain open otherwise. 
the mom informed that she does this because she does not want the same thing happening to her daughter that she went through. I understand now that her mother was extremely promiscuous and she was trying to keep her daughter from being the same way! 
 Mom read all of her emails before she could. And she would erase what she didn’t want the girl to see. She looked through her trash cans, her school bags, and her text messages. And the list goes on. Mom is extremely ... a control freak. 
I could understand all of this if she was an unruly child but, she is not! And she gets great grades! 
The girl has asked her mother for documentation on seeing a councilor but, mom has failed to provide this to her. 
The mom had a terrible time with her daughter moving out so much so.... the school board has informed her to get an attorney. They don’t want to deal with her anymore either. She has pretty much stirred up so much in the town we live in that no one wants anything to do with her! Everyone says.... she’s' off the wall! 
Anyway, I am now believing, that mom may have invented the entire story and has kept up the lie for the last 9 years to control her daughter.
What drives a person to do something like this? This is almost as bad as remembering the abuse! To find out your mother has lied to you all these years!
What do I tell this girl about my findings... or ... not finding anything?
I have even written to a couple of law enforcement agencies to see if they could help and they couldn’t find anything on this man either. 
How do I approach this with this girl? Mom kicked her out on her 18th b-day citing.... your boyfriend is interfering in school work so you either.... break up with him or get out. What do you think the 18 yr old did? 
The boyfriend is not interfering with her school work at all, she gets A's & B's! Mom just hates the boyfriend and every boyfriend she has ever had and uses every reason to break them up. 
Mom sold all her (the girl’s) bedroom furniture, clothing, nick knacks, and then blames me for her not wanting to come home. I can deal with this… it’s not a problem. But, it is for the girl! 
It’s moms way or the highway! 
What’s your take on this?
Bornsickie