I have been dating my significant other for about a year. I bought a house and his oldest boy (19) lives with us and we get his youngest (5) every other weekend.
Last night we found a picture the youngest drew of me. 
In this picture it depicts me as dead with a gun shot wound to the chest. Blood and all in the picture. 
He lies constantly and trys to manipulate his father and I against each other. He tells his dad right in front of me that I need to leave so his father and mother can get back together and get married. They never were married and they haven't been together since he was about 2. He tells his mom I am so mean and that I never let him play and that he hates me. I take him to the park, to the arcade, play games with him, play the wii, and watch movies with him. I do everything I can with him. I spoil him for the most part. We only get him every other weekend. 
This picture disturbs me esspecially since when his mother first asked him about it. He said yes mommy. She needs to go away. I want you and daddy to get back together and get married and live together. Then turns around and says it was nothing. He said he drew that he pushes me and I fell down and got hurt. Then turns around and tell him mom it is nothing again. It is a picture of me as a zombie. 
No. It is a picture of him wishing me harm and to be dead so his parents can get back together.
Now as far as the father goes. He constantly side with his boys. Both of them but the 5 year old the most.
I will tell him to turn the video games on and watch something educational with me and he looks right at me a starts screaming bloody murder for his father. His dad walks in and he starts crying and says I am being so mean. I won't let him play games. What does his dad do. Lets him continue to play video games. He dad doesn't back me up on anything really. So the kid has learned to just scream cry and get daddy. 
I will tell him he can't have sweets, candy, cake until he eats all his dinner. He will refuse to eat and screams and cries to his dad until he gets what he wants.
So. No matter what I say or do he knows if he goes to his father that everything will be okay.
Now. I have talked to his dad and the boy was getting better until this last weekend. Not one thing I told him to do he did. He instead screams for his dad. Got what he wanted then draws a death picture of me and tells everyone I need to go away so his parents can get back together.
I blame partly his dad. But can you tell me what 5 year old draws a picture dipicting killing their step mom and why?
I think the kids is disturbed and now I am a little terrified of him doing something to me in my sleep. Which I had a horrible dream about the very night this happened. I think he needs counseling. 
The father just thinks I am crazy and boys will be boys and I am making too big of a deal out of this. I do NOT think so. What do I do? The mom is horrified by his drawing and backs me up about counseling and even made an appointment for him this week. What do I do when the father is just blaming me and says I am just being emotional? I asked him if the tables were turned how he would feel and he just says nothing he doesn't feel like its a big deal. Really his kids wants me to die and drew a picture of HIM doing it.