Hi I've posted lots of stuff on other chats but I'll do a little introduction on me. I have been dealing with anxiety and depression for over 6 years. Times would be bad but I would get over it. This time it's different and out of control. I haven't been on medication but that's what I'm trying to get to. I'm scared out of my mind now I have schizophrenia. I was away at college and had a panic attack and then all of a sudden I felt detached and unreal about everything. I was questioning my own existence. I had to come home from college and I went to my therapist and as I was waiting in the car for the appointment I was on. My phone and every so often I would thought I saw someone running or standing there out of the corner of my eye. My therapist says this can happen if your anxiety is scaring you or playing tricks on you or depression symptoms too. She says I don't have schizophrenia but I still don't believe her. The world is a scary place all of a sudden and nothing seems real. I can't eat all I want to do is sleep. Everything is so unreal. I was driving and I got myself to where I was supposed to be and was in the moment but it all felt so unreal and detached. I also have a blank mind at time and bad memory. Everything that happened at college In only three short weeks seemed like a blur. I've always been an anxious person and knock on wood I've never had horrible hallucinations visual or auditory. Just the ones I described up above. The only time I feel normal is when I'm asleep dreaming. When I got home I had to feel my boyfriends face to know he was there it all felt so unreal. Finally I calmed down but this morning I woke up anxious and it is the same thing and worse. I feel so hopeless. I'm going to see a psychiatrist tomorrow and do an outpatient therapy to get me back on track and on medication. I used to be normal and now question my existence and am having such bad fears of schizophrenia. I feel not like me. I would also get rashes that come and go and a awful dropping feeling which is all anxiety. I got out of all that but this is the worst symptom ever and can't seem to shape it. It's only getting worse. Any advice would be so helpful sorry for this being so long :'(