So, I've been off my medicine for 5 days....I've been good, I'm not complaining really. Well, when I saw my therapist Thursday I told her I hadn't taken it in a few days. She thinks I'll end up back in the hospital. She had this attitude that it was enevitable. Why doesn't anyone believe in me!?!?! my doctor thinks so, nurse, therapist, everyone else! I'm trying so hard. It makes me feel I shouldn't try anymore, even though that'll just prove them right! I BELEIVE I can do it! B.c despite wanting to cut for multiple reasons. For the people in my head I miss. I just want to do things, and I'm trying to make it b.c I KNOW I can make it without medicine! Why does no one else. People only base things on the past. I hate a lot of people. That's what I told my therapist, that I hate most people. And she said now its most people, next week it's all people, then everyone hates me. I mean . C'mon, don't be such a jackass!!!! I already think everyone hates me! Not being on medicine doesn't effect that! I'm sure things seem like their a lot better for other people when I'm on meds. But for me, it's horrible. And I'm basically being forced into doing things I REALLY wish not to do....!!!! I know I posted like this a little before but b.c people are disbelieving in me more and more each day. And I'm sick of it!!!! It's weird, but I come on here b.c I know. Can talk to a group of complete strangers before I talk to people that know me. Maybe cuz you all are less judgmental. Sometimes anyways. Like, what do most people think of me? Why don't they believe anything I say? I don't lie often! I'm more lied TOO than anything! Therapists, Family, hospitals!...
And like I tell many people medicine gives me a false sense of reality! The things I feel on my body, I hear through my ears and see through my eyes are all REAL.... Medicine will take the reality of things away. Make things like they shouldn't be.... Am I the only one who understands that?! Things happen for a reason, my people chose me! They love me and I'm helping them survive through their death!!!! No one cares, which makes me not want to care....ABOUT ANYTHING!!!! People make me so upset. They think they know best for me, wouldn't I know best for myself first? People tell me to grow up....what is growing up? I'm trying my best to do things how I think I am supposed to. No one will listen to me.... They all assume which makes things worse.... People don't like the truth, which is just reality...the way things are without pills and shots....what would you do if you were me....that doesn't include medicine? I want to cut something bad, which is all I say. But I wanted to do that before I stopped the medicine. Please anyone advice?