Sorry this is so long! A little background info. My husband and I have been together 2 1/2 years, married 1 1/2 of that. My stepson is adopted from my husbands brother and sister-in-law. My stepson does not know that he is adopted (he is 11 and they adopted him when he was 2). They also have an 8 year old daughter who is a great kid. 
He is the most manipulative kid I have ever come across. He is constantly trying playing one parent aginst the other to get his way. Luckily my husband sees right through this and doesn't cater to him whims, or fits. But his mother, who has custiody over him, falls for it every time. While they were married my husband would try to correct the boy and her or her mother would take up for him, say it was ok, basically giving him an excuse to be a brat. So now he doesn't see the sense in talking to her about these things. They are constanly buying him things (to buy his love?) and making excuses for his behavior. Example, he hits his grandmother or anyone for that matter and gets away with it. If it were his sister it wouldn't be allowed! He tells them my daughter and I are mean to him all the time, and that I yell at him all the time. First off I do not yell at the kid. I do talk sternly to him but I do not raise my voice. Nor do I do this all the time because I try not to interact with him so much. At first we got along until he started telling lies about my daughter and I. I feel so hurt by what he has done. And the only reason he has done it is to get more things, be babied, and be told he doesn't have to listen to me I'm not thier mother. (No she could not stand me and because of this I could not stand her.) Her and I finally had a descussion (after 2 years of this) and come to terms with some of our hatred toward each other. She said well they tell me this all the time. I told her the truth. I told her it was easy to put us aginst each other. She realized just how right I was so some of her anger has stopped. I felt relieved! I'm sure she did too knowing I wan't the monster I was made out to be.
He has told the girls (my daughter and step daughter) he will beat them over the head with a crow bar, slit their throats, beat them up etc. He trys to get them in trouble often by making himself look like a good guy, ex they grab and apple an hour before dinner and he says very loudly, "should you be eating that." Of course he expects to be rewarded for doing this, which he isn't. He will also tell the girls he is going to commit suicide and that he is being bullied at school. He has told us he is being bullied at school and I come back with, "Why should I feel sorry for you when you do the exact same thing to the girls? Why do you feel it is nessecary to do it to them when you know how it makes you feel?"
We have tried to get him involved in family activities and he wants no part of it. We will sit down to watch a family movie together and he will get on the computer. We will all go outside and he will stay inside ether playing games or on the computer. When he stays with his Mom they go out every weekend, which we can not afford to do, and they go out to eat, go to the movies, and they get something, wheather it be new clothes, toys, games, shoes etc. And that is fine for her. He hates coming here mostly because we do not give into him. Recently he called his Mom while he was here and asked if she could come pick him up that his stomach hurt (we made him get off the computer so we could watch a family movie). Luckily she asked if she could come get him instead of running over here (We were both shocked!).
I am very concerned about his behavior. I am concerend for the girls that they will get hurt or start doing it themselves because he is getting away with it. We are also having a baby soon and I worry what he will do to the baby. I do not sleep well when he is here and have started locking my bedroom door when he's here. I am scared to death he will do something spiteful and mean. Though he hasn't tried that with me before. 
He also gets great pleasure in games or movies that has rude and vulgar things in them. Which we can watch with the girls, but him it's totally different and we decided it best not to watch things like that with him here. We have told him he limits himself on what we watch because of how he acts. Yes we explain this to him in great detail! We give him little chances to win back rights but he always ends up failing. (One of his favorite movies to watch is the new Footloose, which is way more vulgar than the 1st, until I realized WHY he was watching it over and over! So I put a stop to it). 
The point is this is driving me crazy. I do not know how to deal with this. My husband is very supportive other than the fact he will not talk to his ex wife about any of this. And I and afraid if I say anything to her she will think I am being mean and making this up. Our relationship is very delicate. I am at a loss of what to really do.