A little over a month ago I found out my boyfriend was cheating on me. He is 29 and has been sleeping with an 18 y/o girl. The girl is our sons, god parents daughter. The first time I found out he cried and told me he was sorry. He kept sleeping with her after that. He even did it while I was in the hospital for four days. He was even bringing our son to do this. He either left him with her parents to get a hotel, or he was doing it in her bedroom while our son was in the living room with her parents. After I found out about a week ago that he was continuing the affair we had a huge fight and he left. He came back a few days later saying he promised me he would never do it again. Of course, being dumb I took him back. Well a couple of nights ago  he told me he was working overtime on a night shift. I found out he was lying and actually spending the night with her. Once I told him I knew the truth he shut down ( like he always does) and refuses to talk about it. He kept trying to show affection when I confronted him for the third time that morning... Now, tonight he told me he was again working over time. I am positive he lied again and it with her and her family instead of me and our son. i have been so sick for the past month over this and I have slipped in to a very deep depression. It has been r really hard to focus on anything else. I don't understand him. He says he doesn't want to lose me and that he loves me, yet he stares me straight in the eyes and lies. I kicked him out, and he left without a word. He left twice and came back both times... He can live in her parents house with her for free if he wanted. He says he loves me, yet he won't leave her yet he always comes home... ?
 I really don't know what to do. I know I should leave but I can't stand the thought of leaving him and letting her take him. A small part of me is willing to let him cheat if that means I get to have a small part of him. We also have a two year old together and I am not financially stable enough to leave him, even though  I can live with my father.