Abuse or Relationship Issues? My boyfriend and I have been togeather for a year. Like any relationship we have had minor issues & disagreements but have always worked them out and in the process our relationship has gotten stronger and is wonderful, until most recently. A months ago I found out I was pregnant, I was taking birth control and it was 100% not planned or desired to have a baby at this point in my life. We decided to keep the baby and make it a positive and happy thing, we are both excited. My boyfriend has been supportive about the baby and we are in the process of buying a house. So here is the issues: Last month my boyfriend & I were on a weekend get away, he got entirely too drunk at dinner and began acting very rude and loud. I left the restaurant and walked back to the hotel to avoid an embarrassing scene, this sent him into a rage and he came to the hotel room screaming, calling me awful names saying horrible things and it escalated to the point he shoved me on the bed and pushed the back of my neck/head into the mattress. I left the hotel room for a few hours and came back to him sleeping. It was a horrible fight and it left me heart broken. We discussed what happened the next day and he was extreamly emotional and sorry for what he had done and promised me he would never drink like that or lay hands on me again. Because I'm carring his child and I want our baby to have a mom and dad that are togeather, we've worked it out. I'm now 3 almost 4 months pregnant and I recently discovered some online activity of his that had disturbed me/hurt me deeply. Porn, dating websites (he signed up for but has not used) and a tumblr account where he was liking naked pictures, masturbating videos and inappropriate posts of a girl we both mutually know. Also he also adds a lot of girls on social media and a few other super annoying/disrespectful things that really bug me. I confronted him about the things I saw and found out, he was sorry but I didn't feel genuine remourse for it and I'm completely devastated by what I saw and I can't get over it. Fast forward two days and we are having our gender reveal party, he had too much to drink and went to sleep in our bed, his phone was going off and I looked, it was the girl who he had been following on tumblr calling him??? I woke him up and asked why she was calling and he got so angry he again choked me out severely for a long time, I hit his face a few times and kicked him only to get him off of me and I left the room and went out to the car. I called his mother to come pick him up and stayed in my car until she arrived. He was banging on my car window and screaming and crying to let him in and he was sorry. I didn't open the door. My neck was sore and there were faint bruises. We live together and he is SO sorry but I fear it will all happen again in the future under the right circumstances, the physical and the cheating. Fast forward a week and he's acting like nothing ever happened and he want things to be normal. I can't do that. I need something to help me move past all this. Between the stuff I found online which I consider cheatig and the physical situation I'm drained and unhappy. We're not sexual any longer (my decision) and I'm confused emotionally....is this something that can be worked out through counseling with a relationship therapist or should I end the relationship??? I love him but I know my judgment is off right now, I need help. I just want what is best for my baby girl and myself. Aside from these issues our relationship is really great and I love him dearly, he's a great lover and friend (it sound crazy and stupid to say but it makes me so unsure of what is right) I keep wanting to get to a good place again, have our baby and be a happy family. Am I completely stupid or is it obtainable? Help me do the right and smart thing for all involved!