I am a 39 y/o male, father of a 2 1/2 year old boy that I love.  I used to love playing sports and was very competitive.  For about a year now I just lost my "drive" to play.  For one, some of the games I would play are too taxing on me now and I get out of breath a lot easier than I did when I was younger.  Not much you can do about that.  40 year olds don't have the energy levels of 25 year olds.  Fact of life and I can live with that.  
 But I have lost so much motivation and interest in things that used to get me excited.  But I don't know if it's depression.  I say this because when I go out with my friends to the movies or when I host poker parties at my house...I'm totally happy.  I was depressed really badly 1 year ago for 1 month (first and only time I've ever experienced depression on that level).  But during that time nothing made me happy.  This doesn't feel like that.  I'm just very bored.  I used to find things that made me excited or motivated--stuff I looked forward to.  I feel like I've lost many of those things and it's tripping me out.    I see so many friends my age post stuff on FB like golf outings and how they got so pumped up because they made a birdie on a difficult hole.  That would've excited me as little as 1 year ago and now it would do nothing for me.  I do shoot pool and enjoy it, but even when I do well it doesn't really matter to me.  I used to feel great when I played well at something.  Now my attitude is, "meh, whatever...so I had a good game.  Big deal."  I miss feeling good about doing something well.  
 So what do you think this is?  Is it depression?  Just getting jaded by life?  Mid-life crisis?  Stuck in a rut?  
 If anyone has gone thru something similar and knows what this might be or what they did to help themselves, I'd appreciate your insight greatly.  I don't want to live the rest of my life in this blah state and only be happy for a few hours in the week (when I'm at group events like movies or poker games).  
 Thanks