I'm a fifteen year old girl and recently been asked by a nurse if I was depressed. I obviously didn't have to think about it when I gave her an answer- no. But the more I've been looking it up online, the more I'm having second thoughts about that answer I gave her.
 A few months ago my mum got me to go to the doctors about feeling tired and run down all the time. I never thought anything of it just went along with it. I have had lots of blood tests testing me for different things which all came back clear. So in the end the doctor just wanted to put it down to my dad passing away last October. I nthought this was just a way of ignoring whatever was 'wrong' with me. He then put me in touch with a nurse to talk too, I had talked to her whilst my dad had been ill and after he had passed away. It helped a lot talking to her so I agreed to go back and see her just so the doctor would be happy! It did help to talk to her this time as I hadn't really talked to anybody about family matters as didn't want to be the one who just kept bringing her own problems into conversations all the time. I got asked what I wanted to do next. I didn't know and was given the option of carrying onto see the nurse, do nothing, see a bereavement counsellor or go to a bereavement group type thing. 
 I just said that I want sure, just wanted to put it to the back of my mind and try to ignore it. I didn't know it'd be this a hard too though. From the symptoms I've seen online for depression I can see myself in a few of them: 
 Loss of energy: I never seem to have any energy and always feel tired no matter how much sleep I get
Isolation: I feel myself turning down any invites I get from friends to go anywhere, just want to stay at home
Poor concentration: I know myself I'm not as concentrated on stuff, I'm worried this may have an effect on my schoolwork 
Loss in appetite: some days I don't feel like having food then remembering that I've forgotten to eat, my mum has been noticing this and has mentioned it to me
 I'm due to go back and see my doctor in a few weeks time for more blood test results then I have to go back and see the nurse and decide what to do from now on. I wanted to post a question up here as haven't talked to anyone properly about it. Havent even told my mum about what the doctor and nurse said, dont want her to know how im feeling right now to be honest. I have said some stuff to my cousin and to be fair he doesn't know all the details and I don't want to land him with him. I would be grateful for any answers about this. Thanks.