Ok, before anyone advises me to have my son seek psychiatric help....please know that WE ARE.  His medical card will come in January and he AGREES that he needs help and is willing to go get help.  We have tried the free clinic in the area and he showed up for an appointment...they made him wait 1.5 hours in the waiting room and being an angry person (already)...he WALKED out after the 1.5 yelling some not very nice things in the office.  In the meantime, like any person...he has good and bad days.  We just went thru a RAGEFUL weekend last Sunday...and there are alot of underlying reasons for his anger coupled with some of it being JUST his personality...some kind of chemical imbalance in his brain.  When he turns to RAGE...his face changes into a different person...its very erie is the only way to explain it.  Anyway...my question...Any thoughts on someone with this much anger being involved in boxing?  Well, he is 21 now....when he was 16 he was in boxing and he LOVED it.  He loved it so much that I hated it...I didn't want his head getting punched and I didn't like watching HIM hit people either.  I made excuses and said I couldn't afford it anymore.  Well, he recently got some money from a car accident and he told me yesterday that he was using the rest of his money to go back to the gym and take MMA a type of martial arts mixed with kickboxing and boxing.....He told me that this is a passion and that he wants to do it so badly that he was going to do it ...no matter what I said.  He thinks he can make a career out of this...and honestly...I KNOW THAT HE COULD.  He went tonight and he is SICK (with a flu or something)....the trainer doesn't know that he is sick and still thinks that he has great potential...and he was able to keep up with the people that have been there training for months.  My son realized that he is out of shape...but is willing to go thru the torture to live his dream. I'm wondering if this is going to HELP his anger or turn him into a freakin monster.  I'm afraid of him having skills to severly injure someone when he goes into these rages...where he turns into another person and becomes out of control.  OR...maybe he will get enough energy out at the gym....and the martial arts are known for teaching discipline....but again...this sport is also very street oriented...they are trained to be "tough" and down and dirty.  I'm happy for him that he thinks he has found something that makes him happy.  I'm just curious as to if this is going to make his anger worse.  I don't know that anyone reading this would have any experience in this area...I just thought I would put my thoughts out there and see what kind of feedback I do get.  Thank you.