20 yeas ago, I met a women that I truly learned to love. Near our wedding date I was informed that she was sexually abused by her father from the ages of 13 to 18. During which time of her youth  her eldest sister jumped out of a nine story window in NY and her younger sister ended up living with her female english teacher.
 We now have 3 children  13b  16g 18b: we live 5 minutes apart and the children spend 50% of their time with each of us.
 I have a weird, gut wrinching feeling that I think my X wife (I know you may have heard this quite often ) is sexually abusing our 18 year old. He is not your typical 18 year old. Wears his heart on his sleave. Very Kind, Very bright, but a little out in left field on his communicative abilities despite my efforts. Mom is very demonstrative. Controlling (as need be) and wildly minipulative. 
 Alarmingly...2 years ago in a casual conversation when I was asking her to refrain form being so excited and upset with the children she told me that she was "trying to stop the cycle" .....that came out of the blue.
 My current partner, she has been a round for six years (as she reminds me..often:) who also has been a recipient of a fashion of abuse (step father, however she is still keeping it to her self) also continuosly warns me that this is an odd situation. About my son....
 He does not date
He does not try to date.
He has no female friends.
he has no friends.
he represented Kansas in national math comps. placed 47th in the nation 
I am sure he is not gay.
you think I am nuts.
I have a gut feeling and I have witnessed the psychothapy 
 When I hear them talk it sounds as if he is 10 years old to her. She gets completely animated in a controlling effort if he says that he has other plans.
 My question is>   What question can I ask him, other than being blunt, to find out if his mother has been taking advantage of him?.....Her father, as  reported to me, iniated her inclusion in his pedifile activities was to be "a teacher" and introduce her to sex....I am concerned that could be a conversation going on between the two of them.....ie the cycle.
 and then there is my 13 year old son......My 16 year old daughter (course she is pretty tough)
 If any of you out there sees this posting, please reply with your contribution. I know... he is 18 and he should know right from wrong and what ever is going on will be short lived.....or unfortunley long lived........however I see a cycle...Maybe and hopefully I am nuts, I could be completely wrong. I would love that, but this world that I was introduced to......well...........I should have interviewed a second travel agent. 
 scared...... ***@****