Hey. I'm a 13 year old girl, and i think i suffer from moderate/major depression , i have felt this way for about 6 months now, and im beginning to really struggle coping with it , as a result to this i have self harmed once, though tried many times , and i also frequently scratch at my skin, and burn myself with a lighter . i do this when i am angry at myself , aggitated about my school work , or when i am feeling particulary down.i have trouble gettin to sleep due to this and , when i finnaly do manage to fall asleep , i often wake screaming and crying because of nighmares.i found that i havnt been eating much latley, and because of this i often feel faint or light headed , my friends have started to notice that the most, and now try and presure me into eating at lunch times witch annoys me and makes me want to eat even less. in saying this , there is times where i comfort eat but i only feel bad afterwards and try to starve myself , i find this difficult as , i eat my dinner with my mum and little sister ( aged 5 ) as a family and , as i have always eaten quite alot , she has started to suspect something.As i mensioned earlier , i struggle with alot of my school work , and struggle in many areas , expecially maths, i am failing my subjects and i suspect that this is due to my depression , and the fact that i have been to pre occupied. but i dont let that get me down , i keep smiling and put on a fake face , always happy , always hyper,  but that isnt the real me anymore. my parents are divorced , i live with my mum and i get to stay at my dads house for the weekend every fortnight, living with my mother is hard , as she has depression ( has had since she was 17) and i belive i got it from her , she is crabby , moody and likes to shout alot , so wen i go to see my dad it is a relif.i used to be bullied for being the odd one out and being ginger, so i died my hair and tryed to fit in , it didnt work , but im not bullied so bad anymore.this always made me angry and started my habit of punchin walls, i have injured my hand quite badly a few times but i have never been able to tell my mum as she would call me a stupid  and say i deserve it for hittin walls, so thats my story , theres more , but i dont think you really want to hear anymore. but my question is , can you help? , how can i tell my mum? , my friends ?, most importantly my dad ?, how can i tell him his little girl is so mucked up ? , what should i do ? , how do i stop self harming? , how do i become happy again ?
HOW CAN I FIX IT ???