Hello Dr. 
   I am a 28 year old male.  I am suicidal and even though I am actively seeking help, I don't think I can be helped.  I have a series of problems that are draining the life out of me and I can't continue fighting them.  Ameliorating the effects of one condition seem to exacerbate the other.
   I guess a good place to start is by labeling what these detrimental conditions are.  The first and most obvious since I am posting in this forum is Depression.  When I was a teenager I was diagnosed as dysthymic, depression is constantly there day and night regardless of activity or circumstance.  I guess if it was mild I would suck it up and take it like a man, unfortunately, that's not the case the depression seems to deepen at times, some months I struggle getting out of bed in the morning or even doing enjoyable activities.   The second problem I have a low IQ (86 when I took it the first time) is that 8 years ago I took an official IQ test, due to the fact that I wasn't doing well in school and I wanted to get the degree.  Ever since I found out about this score it has changed my perspective and even how I interact with others (I was originally shy but these days I am catatonic I can't even get close to other human beings or have a normal conversation).  This leads me to my third problem I am constantly anxious.  My heart rate is racing a lot of the time and I feel uncomfortable regardless of activity since I am stupid I am constantly waiting for something to go wrong.  My final problem is that I have ADHD and can rarely concentrate on a task to bring it to completion.  So those are the wholes that threaten to sink my existence.  I was able to get my bachelors degree and went on to attain a masters in Behavioral Neuroscience.  The reasoning for going for that degree is that if I understood the brain well enough I could do something and fix my life.  I was medicated to the hilt, Wellbutrin, lexapro, and vyvanse.  With that cocktail I was able to get through grad school the problem was that while the vyvanse helped it also affected me adversely increasing my anxiety, I almost couldn't present my senior thesis.  I graduated and two years have passed.  I didn't seek a job in my field actively enough since I feared  I wouldn't be competent enough to do the job.  I now have a menial job that while it pays probably as much as a job in my field would (slightly less) I am miserable and can't see myself doing for the rest of my life.
   I am currently facing an existential crisis.  I don't know where to go career wise since I don't think I could do something in my field and even if I could I would need a PhD to actually have a career (something I am certain I can't do due to all 4 conditions).   I realize I can't have a relationship due to my depression (which would be a constant drain on my partner) and the other conditions (hell I can't even hold a conversation with another human being).  As for a social circle I have driven them all away as they think I am an immature jackass that can't get my act together or they think I am too draining to be around.  I can't change anything and I can't solve the problems or even mask them.  I considered walking into a hospital (hell I work for two of them) and telling them I am suicidal that I am unable to even plan my future, that taking things one day at a time is not working for me.  What stops me from doing this is that all that will happen is I would be put on 72 hour watch and then released with the same problems (plus an added debt for the hospital stay).  My mentor also recommended years ago that I go to a mental institution and tell them that I was severely depressed (but the money issue and the fact that it would be on my permanent record for all future employers to see stopped me). 
I am at the end of my rope compulsive thoughts hit me at every hour of the day and I can't stop myself from thinking about them.  At this point I think I am too damaged to continue and even the therapist I used to see in the past doesn't believe that anybody could be in this constant turmoil,  He believed I was just making my situation worse so he could be my "cheerleader".  
 PS. I have checked other factors that could contribute to my symptoms.  While I do have anemia and vitamin d deficiency I don't think those can be causing all these array of conditions.  My problem seems to be based on the 4 pre-existing conditions listed and psychological.