I have been with my boyfriend seven months we met in a homeless hostel and recently moved into a house together because I got caught pregnant.
I have a very difficult past with been abandened by my parents and hit drugs and lost my children into care due to the father been physically abusive anyways since moving into this house with current boyfriend I have had a misscarriage and have been attacked by my boyfriend.
I have had the police out to him but he blamed it on me as he had a scratch on his neck from where I fought him off in self defence.
I consently get called names and made to feel as tho I'm always in the wrong and can not do anything right.
I have started to believe all the stuff he says that I'm fat and have tried to loose weight but have found myself eating more to get my own comfort.
I'm ugly so have tried wearing make up but then get called a **** and am only wearing it so I can have an affair.
I have apparently already cheated on him and before I lost my baby it was the guy I cheated with's baby (which it wasn't and haven't cheated) but now I have lost the baby he has told everyone it was his I'm so confused with all this.
Police have given me an insight to his past he has beaten his ex put a knife to his mum been in jail a lot and is a raging alcoholic.
Since finding all this out police have advised me to leave rapidly I have been thinking about doing so but I have no family or friends I am not allowed on my phone (only on here now as he has alcohol induced acute pancreatitis and is in bed in pain).
All money goes into his bank and I am not allowed to touch bank card he has my bank card and has the only set of house keys.
I left him once for a day and during the night he had took all his warafrin tablets (to thin his blood due to a blood clot) and cut his wrists. I felt guilty and messaged him the next day he told me he had done it because he didn't want to live without me.
I am now at a very confused stage and don't know weather to go or not he has been really nice these past few days he has been ill has asked me to marry him and to try for another baby. I do not want to bring a baby into this relationship bit am not allowed to take the pill or anything so am scared when he gets better and wants sex I will get pregnant again then am trapped for good. Our last arguement started over me changing my picture on facebook to a picture of me and not a picture of me and him together.
Sorry this has been a long post I just needed to get everything off my chest and try and find some sort of solution thanks for any advice in advance