I've never done anything like this, but I don't know where else to turn. 
I recently became involved with a girl about a few months ago. In fact, she is a co-worker. We hit it off pretty much instantaneously. Within a few weeks we were in an exclusive relationship and things appeared to be going great. This was the first serious relationship I've ever had. The emotional bond I felt between us was so amazing that we were talking about marriage and kids within a month of being together. It seemed like nothing could stop us. But it's like they say, if it's to good to be true, it most likely is. Within a month she said that we needed to separate, and my world crumbled down around me. 
A little background on her is that she is in therapy. To put it shortly, the girl had been dealt a crappy hand in the game of life. I would list the abuses she had gone through and the disorders she faces, but even though this is anonymous I still feel I should respect her privacy. But she is seeking help through therapy. It was because of her therapist that she decided to split-up to figure out her problems. My initial response to a break-up is to cut the ties completely (which I can do even with a co-worker). However, she asked me to remain her friend, and to be there for her. Seeing as how the break-up wasn't a bad one neccessarily, and the fact that I am head-over-heels in love with her, I agreed to stick by her. Ever since then, I've been riding the craziest emotional roller-coaster I wouldn't want anyone to experience. She seemed to still want me, and then shove me away. She'd tell me I should go out and hang with my friends, but then give me a guilt trip when I tried to. If it wasn't a guilt trip, she would become hostile and mean, and threaten to leave my life completely. Knowing that I'm still attached to her emotionally, she would purposely do and say things to make me hurt or jealous. During the relationship, I noticed a few red-flags. Her temper was easily irritable over the most mundane thing, and she was intentionally mean on several occassions. But I'm a resilient person and can deal with things like that. After the split, it seemed to just become worse.
Now up to this point I never heard of Borderline Personality Disorder. In fact, she is the one who told me about it. She had thought that she might have it, and researched it for a paper she was writing in her Psych class. She was able to self-diagnose herself with BPD from this research. She questioned her mother about this, and apparently her mother knew she had BPD since she was young, she just neglected to tell her this information. (Of note: her family is part of the reason she goes to therapy). This discovery just happened this week.
So now we come to my situation (I apologize for the long-winded story). I've been researching this disorder like a mad man and it seems everywhere I look it cautions anyone to not stick around someone like this. They all advise to run for the hills. But I just can't bring myself to make that decision. She has virtually no one to talk to about her personal life, and she seems like she wants to get better, which I've read is a HUGE step toward recovery as someone with BPD has to be able to recognize their problem and then do the right thing to get better themselves (not someone else telling them to do it). This all sounds good, but I'm still dealing with someone with BPD who makes me feel needed one day, and then hurts me or despises me the next. It's effecting my work and my social life, and I feel like I'm completely lost. I don't want to leave her to fend for herself, but I also don't want to be hurt.
So the question is, do I stick around, or cut the ties? Will that hurt her recovery if I leave?