Eight years ago I divorced my husband that abused me all five ways.  He would even take advantage of my while hitting me!  After three tries to get away from him, I finally did.  His last words to me were, "If you ever run my name through the mud and tell, I will kill you when you least expect it".  At this time, he was also having an affair with the woman he now has a son with and they have been married for 7 years.  He stalked me for a year after our divorce.  I went onto getting therapy and I a few years later started attending college to persue my degree in social work.  I graduated with that degree this past December.  As a way of letting go of what he did and to relase the rest of my emotional baggage, I wrote him a letter telling him he was no longer going to control me or dictate my life by the actions of his past.  I also got frank with him and discussed how his disgusting abused led me to a life of becoming a social worker to help other women due to my strength and survival.  The main reason I wanted to send this letter was for me and I was still carrying my past.   A few weeks later I got a myspace email from his wife and she cussed me up and down for contacting her husband and accusing him of abusing me.  She said he has never hit her or hurt her or was abusive.  She told me I was crazy and needed to be locked up.  Well, I thought to myself, how can a man that was so abusive with me not abuse her?  My loved ones and I concluded that it was him, not her contacting me.  Even though the profile reflected her life, pics...etc.  Also, at this time  I was newly engaged to a man and wanted to fully be his, another reason I sent the letter.  I also have bipolar disorder and was having issues with it around this time.  My fiance decided to leave me in March and said he could not handle my illness.  Of course we both changed our profiles and it showed that we had broken up.  Almost immediatly, the abusive ex's "wife" contacted my ex-fiance!  She went on and on about how crazy I am and my ex-fiance sided with her.  He gleefully emailed me saying he is now friends with the wife and believes her, that I was never abused but crazy.  I told him I did not believe him and then checked the womans profile and my ex-fiance was in her top friends.  I got scared.  I then tried to tell him it is my ex and he is dangerous, trying to find me.  I locked my profile and went out to get a baseball bat to have by my bed and I activated my safety plan.  I have no control over what my ex-fiance says to the "wife".  Sorry for the book but a back story was needed to fully answer my question.  Can a man be severly abusive to one partner and never again?  According to my studies no!  Is this the wife or my ex-abuser pumping the ex-fiance for info. on me?   Should I be scared?   Thank you everyone.  I hope to get some solid answers to this one!