My mother is a very unhappy woman who apparently was emotionally abused by her mother who was emotionally abused by her mother. All my life my mother talked about how no one liked her. As a teenager I became aware that she had to work two jobs to support us and and she discussed how much it cost to feed me and how much money she had to spend on me. A couple times I got notes from my teachers regarding poor perfomance and she'd say, "I'm a failure." I have to be really careful about what I say or she might blow up at me. She may ask me to do something and if I forget it's because I'm forgetful. If I write a reminder to myself she tells me I'm forgetful. I am going to be 55 next month. I own my own home and I'm divorced. My mother was living in assisted living in 2009 and got into an argument with the owner and she decided to move in with me. She has pretty much taken over my home. She is not clean. At her place she ordered a lot of items and cluttered her home. Now my place is looking like her place. If I attempt to clean my house she tells me I'm compulsive. If she is watching MY TV and I am talking to her she will turn the sound up to a painful volume. We can be talking and she'll decide she doesn't want to talk me and will do that. She wants dinner at 5:30 p.m. but I prefer dinner around 6 or 6:30 p.m. One night I too dinner out of the oven at 5:47 p.m. and she went to bed. I was the terrible daughter who starved her mother (she weighs over 200 pounds). This has happened quite a bit. I have a full time job in another county and have to get around on the bus. I'm not always home by 5:30 p.m. On the weekend it isn't easy for me to drop everything I'm doing to have dinner at 5:30 p.m. She's a news junkie and talks about how the world is falling apart. Anytime I talk about something I want to do--such as travel or leave this state she tells me that is a bad thing to do. Quite often we start discussing my weight. She tells me it's encouragement. Once when I watched a movie I discussed the period of time it was set in and she said, "Oh, that doesn't matter to me." Another time I commented on where a movie was made and she said, "is that important?" That's a commen phrase when I made a comment about something. Several times I'll discuss something and she will say, "Oh, I don't think about stuff like that, I only think of important things." I've gotten to where I won't say anything unless I have to. I was born out of wedlock (something she hasn't admitted to me--but I know through other people). There were two families who were interested in adopting me and she's said,"It's too bad I didn't let the people in _______ adopt you." So often she talks about how no one likes her and the terrible things her mother did to her. So often I feel like I'm a terrible daughter. I didn't want her to move in with me and she promised me she wouldn't do it. I resent that I got caught in an argument of whether my mother was going to the doctor. 
 As a child I was in a car she was driving and it was a warm summer day. I had the car window open and instead of asking me to close the window she turned the heat on. I try to see that she has clean clothes but I am not always on top of everything so she has to to wash her clothes by hand--instead of telling me she's out of clothes.