Hello,
 I am new here but I will post. I am posting this becasue I am undiagnosed but do have a regular psychiartrist that I see.
 General: I am 27 female right now and taking 5mg of abilify daily....I am healthy, no kids, no husband, great supporting family to help me with my mental issues =).
 Background: I noticed something was wrong with me when I was 21 (2002). Great stress was around me with school and parents divorce. I suffered a mental and emotioanl breakdown and had to be hospitalized. I remember right before this I was under a lot of stress and had great depression that continued to deepen and anxiety as well. I had some sort of meltdown because of all this and things have not been the same since. I had great suspicion at the time that people were against me and that they were talking about me behind my back. I also remember being ultra sensitive and thinking people online were plotting against me. It was weird.
 I went into the hospital becasue I was majorily depressed, and could not get out of bed. The whole time I kept thinking that someone was after me...i.e. Michael Jackson, and various other people. It was really strange since I never met him or any other celebrity for that matter. I was given porzac for the depression as well as advan(sp) for the anxiety which I stopped taking. I heard a voice but was not completely honest with my doctor at the time becaue I didnt know what was going on. I remember I had parnoia and strong auditory hallucinations. I was suicidal, and had to be in placed in a crisis house for 2 weeks.
 Years later after being untreated, I had another episode, as I call them. This time similar but different in nature. Instead of feeling down with major depression, I had an outbreak of psychosis that was sort of paranoia mixed with mania. This was in 2006.  I thought I could do anything for about a whole day! I was going to sing, dance and Michael Jackson was going to teach me how. Again it was brought on by stress from school. I thouht I was someone else and that the mafia was after me. I also thought that my phone was tapped and that people wer plotting against me. I could not sleep this time, and was full of energy. I was also sure I was pregrant, but was still a virgin at the time so it was impossible. I also thought I was going to give birth to some special child and that I was mother theresa.
 I went into the hospital and they put me on risperdal for all this. I have since seen a psychiatrist but they do not know what it is still. Is is schizoid affective disorder with pschoisis? Is it with major depresion? With bipolar? Its a strange combination. I was given schizoidaffective disorder but I am not happy with it. This was back home in America, I am in the U.K now. They are reviewing my charts to get a better handle on it. I
 I am doing okay, but I still have a very flat affect. I tend to be unemotional, withdrawn, with no sexual intimacy. I am not ugly and I have dont well for myself considering the circumstances. I have held jobs, I have also graduated from college with a degree in Psychology (go figure) and I am working on my MBA, I am high functioning whatever I am, but its hard nevertheless.
 Any insight as to what went wrong and why? My current problem is that I always feel flat, always feel depressed to some extent. The depression never lifted completely, but the other symptons have been taken care of with Abilify. I do well on it, with the exception of weight gain of about 50lbs since my first episode. I also have some anxiety which I am going to see my doc next month and tell her.