I have recently begun to suspect that my mother, who I have a very "complicated" relationship with may have bpd.  I am not sure tho.  She will almost "snap" sometimes and says and does things that seem to be way outside of her normal value system.  She will say horrible nasty things, and has even become violent when she becomes overwhelmed.  Then later she will either blatently lie about the occurence, try to convince me that it wasn't really what it appeared to be, or just deny that it ever happened or claim she has no memory of the horrible things she does.
 The reason I am so concerned is because I have a number of medical issues including PTSD and Chronic pain from a back injury.  I am disabled so my husband and I live with my parents right now so we can save money to buy a business someday.  I do not drive (ptsd from car accident) so I am dependant on her for things like getting to Dr. appointments, filling prescriptions, groceries.  etc.  The general idea is that she and I are both at home during the day so she can help me when I run into physical limitations etc.
 Recently I have noticed that she seems to be "loosing it" more frequently recently.  One of the problems is that she has escalated from telling lies and listening outside doors to things like slamming on the breaks when we are in the car (this jerks my back forward and I cannot stabilize my spine, so this causes tremendous pain that lasts for hours)  She has done this before when she is driving me and she gets angry, but it has recently exca;ated and everytime she takes me to my therapist appointment she drives in a way that I could swear is going out of her way to cause me physical pain, or to scare me because I have physical flashbacks in cars sometimes where I cannot stop my body from like moving on its own.
Anyway.  So a little background is that I have been going to a new therapist that I think she resents.  I keep getting the feeling lthat she is trying to sabotage my therapy, because she will start ridiculous arguments a few hours before my therapy appointment.  This has happened 4 times and its getting consistent.
  Another problem is that as I am making progress in therapy, and becoming better at articulating what I need from a caregiver and my family members in regard to my chronic pain management and PTSD treatment, she seems angry that I have found a method that is giving me some progress.
Recently she has really escalated from week  long silent treatments and frequent manipulation and what she likes to call "harmless fibs",  to more aggressively driving when I am in the car with her, which she is well aware aggravates the severe back pain and spasms I already have. And also has thrown a heavy weight currogated cardboard box at me, and she has also graduated to physically kicking me in the thigh of the leg that I had just had an RFA on for radicular neuropathy coming from my spinal injuries.
I don't know if I am overreacting here or not.  I know that because of my chronic pain and ptsd I can be difficult to live with.  I am not trying to make it seem like I am an angel and she is the devil.  But, if some of this could be bpd, then I might be able to at least work around it enough so that I can depend on her for the help I need day to day from a caregiver.
 So, I know I am new here, but, does anyone have an opinion on what they see going on here?  What are some variables I should look for in her behavior to know if it could be BPD?
It is kind of a time sensitive issue because if this is not BPD I am afraid that the physical part will just continue escalating as I begin to become less dependent on her through the therapy I am doing.  
Any advice?  If she does seem likely BPD, what should I do? How can I let her know when she is in one of those moods? How can I protect myself from her desire to lash out and hurt me when she is in one of the moods.  And if it is BPD can anyone recommend a good book on how to deal with it?
Sorry this is so disjointed, and pre-emptive thanks to anyone who can help.
~Painbrain