It all started with a horrible constant head pressure in my left temple that burned at times.  No pain meds could take it away and this lasted for 6 weeks. During that time I had a MRI, bloodwork, met neurologist, to rule out anything serious. 
I then went to a chiropractor to help allievate what they said was a stress migraine.  He did a neck adjustment which gave my head pressure much relief for 4 days until my neck became sore.   I went back 5 days later and received a full body adjustment this time and then that night I began to feel this prickly/electric zaps all over my body anytime I moved.  It is like I can feel all the nerves in my body whenever I move the slighest.  It's not an excruciating pain but it is really uncomfortable and sporadic all over my body.  I've had some soreness in my neck, shoulder blade, and lower back but nothing super painful like a broken bone or pinched nerve. The only relief I'm getting from the prickly pain is lying completely still or sleeping.  But once I get up its like all the nerves in my body awake and I can feel them even with the slighest movement like just my arm.  I'm also getting numbness in my right fingers and foot. 
 It's been 2 weeks since the adjustment and I'm still experiecing the same symptoms.  The weird zaps all over when I move have stayed pretty constant.  I've been to the ER who did a CT of my neck and some bloodwork but just called it parestesia. My dr put me on prednizone and muscle relaxers but they havent taken away the symtpoms.  Lately, my feet have felt like they are falling asleep as well when I've been up and walking.  I've also felt some numbess in my fingers but then if I pinch myself I can feel it. I've also  met with another chiropractor who did xrays and said nothing is out of place and he didnt think one adjustment would cause these weird painful sensations all over.   
 My question is can this really just be from the adjustment and nerves being irritated. My nervous system seems to be in a very hyperactive state at this point but I'm concerned lately that since its not going away and my legs are feeling numb that something worse is going on.   
 Could a compressed or pinched nerve be causing the symptoms I'm describing all over and with my legs when walking?  I've recently had a CT, bloodwork, MRI and MRA of the head and neck, and am scheduled for an EMG. Any advice on what to do would be appreicated.