Hi everyone
 I am a soon to be 21 year old girl who has been diagnosed with depression, social anxiety disorder, and potentially thinking I may have borderline personality disorder. I have always been "over sensitive" and always over analyzed peoples intentions towards me or been suspicious of what people say for as long as I can remember. I was bullied throughout elementary and middle school for being "different" which I'm sure doesnt help. In addition I also have body image issues after being heavy from age 12-17 and finally losing a good 40 pounds when I started college. Regardless, I was diagnosed with depression and had to withdraw from school last fall due basically to a "Mental Breakdown" in addition to being sexually assaulted by a friend and was sent to DBT (Dialectical Behavior Therapy) which was orginally created for patients with borderline personality disorder. My therapist is only reluctant to give me a diagnosis because I do not really show the impulsive part of the disorder.
 However, some of the symptoms I do identify with. I have a tremendous fear of people abandoning me my life, whether it be a boyfriend or friends or family. i will often stay in a destructive relationship because I fear being alone, and if i do get abandoned I get angry and throw a huge fit and melt down. I also have a very warped self image, which i cannot tell if it is due to low self esteem from my body image issues, an issue itself or both. My mood swings are horrific and I feel like I have absolutely no control over how I feel or how I will react, I am unpredictable, I cry over anything and over analyze what anyone says to me and will take it personally even if I know it has nothing to do with me. I will get boughts of depression and anxiety that come out of nowhere and are so intense and sudden nothing anyone tries to do will get me out of my funk. Some days i feel so empty and worthless I feel like I dont even matter in the world and I'm not worthy of love, being treated well, etc.
 One symptom I think expresses my daily life is the switching from love to hate in my relationships, One minute I go from loving the person and wanting to see them constantly to within an hour, calling them horrible names and really being angry with them over a tiny slight or mistake. This has messed with a lot of my dating relationship because most of my boyfriends have called me over emotional and with some friends as well. I am highly sensitive to rejection of anytype and criticism as well, Im told a slight error and i either burst into tears or get really angry.
I get suspicious of even close friends for no reason.
 As I noted before, the one set of symptoms my therapist was unsure about was the impulsive behavior, I dont participate in loads of promiscuous sex, use drugs or alcohol to an unhealthy extent or binge eat. I do tend to be very very sensitive regarding my weight and if I feel Ive gained "too much" weight, will hear in my head that i dont deserve food because I am too fat and will not eat for a good a mount of time ( i dont consider this full blown anorexia, possibly a minor case because I do eat eventually) I dont gamble, I am somewhat impulsive with money but not to a crazy degree. I would like some other input before I ask for a second doctors opinion.
 I have also been diagnosed with PMDD which doesnt help either, I'm on 50 mg of zoloft which does stop my mind from running and been in counseling since I was 11 or so, but I feel like I may need a mood stabilizing prescription to help because I feel like I react before thinking and have no control at all, please help!