Ill try and make it has short possible. Why do I feeel this hate torced my boyfriend son. We recently had a child together. We both have childs of our own. His son so jealous of my daughter and it gets me mad because hell say things like thats my dad and that hurts my daughter that she cries because her father is absent. Now I talked to him before about us all  sitting down and explaining that were a family and theyre brother and sister. He never got us to sit on the table. We get his son every other weekend. I also feel he favors his son.. when it comes to him he jumps hell miss work to take him to the doctor. Our newbirn was recently sick and he didnt even bither to take a day off to take her to the doctor his excuse was because me and him are a team and his sons momand him dont get along and he feels he has to be there for his son because she wont. He tries to do bith the mom and dad part. But with our chichild. He doesnt try has hard has he does with his lil boy. One time we talked about our kids room and im used to telling my daughter your room because shes always here naybe its wrong because her and her step brother share it so everything I tell my daughter your room he gets on ny kids and starts saying its not hers its the kids room. I wish he was that jumpy when it came to his son constantly reminding my daughter thats hes his dad why cant he ever say? Son im both your dads now. I feel my newborn is going to suffer has well with this little boy because hes goingt o tell her hes my dad too. One time he told my its not my fault your daughter doesnt have a dad im not going to punish my son for that. That hurt me so much. Im put in the middle because I love this guy but I dislike his son for everuthing he says and does I cant even hear his lil voice without being annoyed. Everytime hes here were arguing so much. Idk what to do because my newbornr being put in between as well. And that little kid mom is another story everytime they argue shes constantly bringing me up and telling him o your going ro forget about your son because you have your baby now or she tell him your sons going to be a jeally bean at your house with the new bby now. I feel I had enough of all this.