I met this guy when I was 14. He was the sweetest ever. He was my first at everything. I got prego when I was 17. Thats when the abuse stated first it was, your fat no one will ever want you. Totally brain washed me. I took beating and verbal abuse until I had my son. A few weeks later he put me in the hospital. I told the cops I got jump by I don't know who. The abuse continued for years until he got locked up for avading arrest. I was free for 1 year. But still felt trapped. Because i knew if I wasn't there when he got out he would look for me. I was there and I was scared because if I want he would go after my family. I got prego again but he was still the same way. He would beat me in front of my son. That now till this say  remembers what happened. I had my baby and was still getting abused by him. He caught another case and got locked up for 2 years. I was free once again. I fell in love with my husband. We married because my first said he didn't want me. I was still terrified of him. He got out and told told me you better leave him and went crazy when he found out I had another daughter by my husband. Well me and my husband were going through some things and spilt up. So he told me to come back that hes a changed man. So I believed him and went back. It was okay  for a while,  for alittle bit but like always his drinking took over a beat me again I had had another son by him and he was only 3months when this happened but I was so tired of getting hit and abused like always. I called the cops on his *** and they took him to jail. He got 4 years. I was in the hospital and idk how my husband showed up and cried when he seem me blamed hisself for me gettn hit. But all along it was me that couldnt let go. We got back together and I got  a restraining order and left him. Im happy I got out and have a living man that took me back. I just hope  women dont   have to go through this ever again. I won't ever go back to that. I now know I'm better and worth something more. Took alot to get me healthy again. But I still have nightmares. Will this gone on forever? Who has been through what I've been through? The nightmares feel so real like I feel the blows I use to take.