Hi everyone... Will someone please give me some advice... Or well maybe my situation is not serious enough for you to even look at.... but i will try anyway..
I am not one of those kids who has a terrible home life, or who is abused, or has had some kind of trauma in her life... I will just start off by saying that...
But i have anxiety, and not sure about the depression. I have written on her before a while ago, and things got better, then got worse again...
Well anyway, my problem has alot to do with school... I have been a perfectionist ever since the end of Year 7 (First high school year) and ever since it hasnt really been easy etting my work done... Term 3 and 4 of year 7 i was staying up til 11pm-2am to finsih homework, and I started it as soon as i got home at 4:30/5:00pm. I got sick in the end and had to leave school one day, because i was so tired.
So ever since then it has been a downward spiral from there.... I dveeloped anxiety due to a situation with a family member which affected me alot, and have made a new record of 5am, to do homework. Although i have to admit i don't start it as soon as i get home, but thats only because i am so exhausted!! I feel this tiny piece of sadness, which makes me feel like i want to break down and cry... 
Only like a month ago i was staying up til 3am every morning and getting up at 6am. iI did this for about 2 school terms. Hardest time ever! 
So now i really can't be bothered doing my homework, which increases my anixety and my struggle to catch up with it later.... So many teachers at my school have tried to help me and give my advice, and i have taken it in and am trying to use it, but i dont know what i am doing wrong... Am i being impatient or something? I have aabsoluetely no idea.. I am really scik of this and myself, i feel like i may be a litle depressed, unless this is all part of being a teenager, AS EVERYBODY TELLS ME! But i know its more than that. There is somehting seriously wrong with me... I dont know if i even want to live anymore. I am a disappointment to the teachers, i feel like an idiot to other students, and am no longer intelligent because i need sleep and have missed out on so much of class because my mind wasn't working...
I dont know what i am going to do.. I used to see a counsellor, but then she left so i thought i could keep going on my own, and well that obviously isnt working fo rme at all... I want to wag school so badly!
HELP!