I know I was touched sexually, when I was about 5 I remembered that my mom drop me off at my Great Aunts during the week to catch the bus, and my older boy cousins where there. They where 12 and 14 they would always make me sit in their lap and touch my private. I was young but I knew this was wrong and didn't like how that made me feel. I knew it was wrong, but I was afraid to tell my mom or anyone else. There was more girl cousins  around the same age as me, one was a sister of one of the boys, but I never understood why they never touched them. So one day I witness with my own eyes the 8 yr. old sister and the 12 yr. old brother actually have sex with each other. This was shocking to me because I was young never ever seeing this type of action in my life. I never saw anyone naked but myself so I didn't understand what was going on. The sister told me that she liked it and they been doing that since she was 4. Well to make a long story short I was terrified of men after all the touching my cousins done to me. I was even afraid of my father which he never try to touch me in a sexual way. I just was scared that he might touch me the way my older cousins did. I didn't like hugs from the opposite sex. So I dint know! I think what they done to me messed me up, I'm 26 yr. old and I have a 4 mth old daughter and a 5 yr. old son I trust no one to keep them at all. I am very fortunate that I have a husband who works and don't mind that I stay home to raise my children.My son is not in school yet, because his b-Day is late, but he goes this coming up school year. This makes me very scared, because I fear that someone will do this to him. My husband even suffer from this, because I dont trust him with the Kids either. I dont want to believe that he would do that, but like I said I don't trust anyone. I pray and ask God to look over them at all times, and to help me with the fear that I have about men. Plus I dont want to shelter my children. People tell me I have to let them go to learn about life, but I dont know about that. Oh yeah I forgot to mention that I was 17 when I lost my virginity, it was peer pressure, but I done it anyway. So if anyone can help me please,because this is hurting my kids social life and mines too, plus it killing my marriage. Please tell me If need to get help.