I believe my wife is suffering from some kind of mental distress and from the reading I have done, delusional disorder seems to fit. 
 About 2 months ago, I noticed a few new apps had popped up on my phone. For some reason, my phone automatically gets any apps she downloads automatically. Anyhow, all of the apps had to do with sound recording. I asked her why she had downloaded these types of apps and she replied that she wanted to see if she talked in her sleep. I didn't believe this explanation, but I accepted it. I had an odd feeling that she planned to record me. A few days later, I saw her sitting on the couch listening to her phone with headphones. When I saw the screen I noticed it wasn't music but a recording. That night, we had a talk, and after a long but mild argument in which I made it clear I didn't believe her explanation that she was listening for sleep talk. When I finally demanded to hear the recordings, she confessed. She had been recording me in the bathroom through the vents. She insisted that I was masturbating in there. I was shocked and a bit upset. We had a bit more heated an argument and in the end, after I repeatedly denied this and told her it was nonsense, she seemed to accept the truth. 
 A couple weeks passed. One night as we went to bed, I noticed her phone was on the bed above her pillow. It was a very odd place for it. She had scooted down the bed 6 inches or so to make a space for it. She has a bedside table to put it on. I was very suspicious of this. I waited until she seemed asleep and picked up the phone. Sure enough it was recording. This time we had a much more intense fight. She insisted that I was masturbating while laying next to her all night nearly every night. I couldn't reason with her in any way.  I explained that I only masturbate a few times a week and during the day. I tried to appeal to her rational mind, asking why she never just rolled over and caught me in the act. I asked how I was able to do this all night yet get up early and function all day. I got so frustrated I called my parents at 1:30 am and told them I was coming over. I insisted she either take these accusations back and agree to treatment or I was leaving. I know this wasn't a proper way to handle it but I felt so betrayed and hurt and frustrated. She had two previous husband who were unfaithful and prone to lies. I am faithful and truthful to a fault. It is the aspect of my personality I hold dearest. I was scared this would destroy our marriage and take me out of the lives of my two wonderful step-daughters. It was awful. In the end, she agreed that she might be wrong and would seek some sort of professional opinion. 
 In the few days after this incident, we had several pressing obligations to attend to involving a custody case with an ex of hers. It was vital to our littlest girl's safety. So the incident was not forgotten, but it lost priority. 
 Things seemed better for a couple weeks. And then last night, I went into the bathroom after putting our oldest girl to bed. My wife went on to the living room to watch TV and wait for me. I was in the bathroom about 5 minutes and when I was walking out to the living room I caught my wife leaving the bathroom adjacent to the one I had been using and the light was off.  I knew immediately that she was recording me. When I asked she denied this but when I insisted she show me her phone she admitted she was. This time another bad argument ensued. But this time was worse. She claimed again that I was doing this all night still in bed or the bathroom in our bedroom. She said she faked sleeping and heard me doing it. She said she had extensive proof in recordings. She said she had researched "my problem" and knew I would deny it. I threatened to leave. I felt like I was trapped. She was very aggressive and insistent. I couldn't break through to her in any way. I said some mean things like "you've gone insane" or "your completely crazy". I feel bad about that now because I truly believe she needs help. I made several attempts to debunk her claims but I finally did leave. She told me she just wanted me to admit to what I had done. She said she believed me to be a good and honest man but that I am sick. 
 That was all I could take. I left the house. I drove to a local coffee shop parking lot and calmed down and then started to do Internet research. I found that her symptoms best fit delusional disorder but I am no professional. I decided to go home. I know she needs my love and support. It's just so hard to be a good and loving husband and be accused in this way. And monitored for such a dubious reason by your wife. 
 Anyhow, I found her at home listening to more recordings. We talked briefly. I insisted she see a professional immediately. I slept on the couch. She was unapologetic and I was too. I feel our marriage has been severely damaged. I'm more upset than I can remember being in years. Any help or advice on how to proceed would be more apprexiated than I can say. 
 I should also note that my wife has an infatuation with masturbation. She gets aroused at the thought of me masturbating, and has even asked me to videotape myself doing so. I have caught her masturbating (I STRONGLY suspect to her audio recordings of me) during what was supposed to be a daytime nap on a few occasions. I also found a vibrating sex toy in her purse that was purchased on a grocery trip. It was out of the package and the battery was dead. There was also dried fluid on it. The receipt showed she had bought it the very night she used it. With some pressing and interrogation, she admitted she had pulled off the road and used it on the way home.  This worried me. Also, after or first bad fight involving these accusations, we went to bed. I put my arm around her to reassure her and she moved it to her breast. She was extremely aroused and we had sex. I found this very confusing and alarming. 
 Again, thank you in advance for taking the time to read this and for ANY advice or input you may have