I think my sister has schizophrenia or an extreme case of bipolar.  She always texts me and sounds so happy, like she wants to get together as a family and hang out.  And if you tell her youre busy or anything like that, she'll send like 10 texts saying "OH you never wanna be there for your sister" "You better grow up"  and so much other ********.  Its sad really, and if u saw this, youd realize its the most pathetic thing ever.  She takes things that happened bout 20 years ago, and goes over and over it.  "Well, my husband left me, and i took care of him"  And then she talks bout her ex boyfriend.  "Well my ex boyfriend abused me and I took care of him."  Its just enough, its the saddest thing ever.  Shes 42 now, lives with my parents, and her son, because basically he lives with my parents, because my parents, his grandparents, were his actual parents. I mean, I know I'm not the best brother, but when she gets very hanus and starts attacking me out of no where, as i am trying to just live out my day to day with my wife, its just wrong.  So ok, she had her husband leave her and after that she ended up with an abusive guy.  But shes done this to herself.  She acts like we all owe her something.  Ok i feel bad bout her husband leaving her, but after that is when she couldve gotten things together.  She couldve said ok,  (and im talkin this is like the early 90's)  ok,  iLL take care of my kid and get a job and move and take care of my kid. But NO, she went partying all the time, lived in regret, let my parents take care of my nephew, and start hangin around trashy people.  Then she met an abusive guy, who made her thousand times more crazy, and all she did was take care of him.  
Now, she looks at everybody and the world like we all owe her something.  She's got issues and issues, and deep issues that from 20 years ago until now, that she uses and lashes out on people.  Her life is not good, and i hope better for her, i really do, but i really dont see anywhere she can go.  I think she is really going to end up in the looney bin.