here it goes trying to keep it to the point...I have been married for 8 years and have one child and 5 months ago my husband had divorce papers sent to me at our front door...I knew we had issues and things werent great, but it was a big surprise that he actually went and did that. Most of our issues are about money...and a debt that I owe for gambling from 2 years ago that he cant let go.  I have admitted to my mistakes and I have been taking responsibility to pay off my debt...now that it is almost paid off I get divorce papers..  He cannot let it go and we argue about why this has to be a constant issue and I cant constantly hear about my mistakes till im 90 years old, but he says its not the past when it continually affects our future...meaning the loan im paying takes away from my ability to pay more bills ect.   He is a work aholic....50-70 hours a week, and his money has always been his money...my name is not on check book nor do I know about is financial accounts because they are his.  He has always been very responsible about money, no loans and no debt, and a good provider. But my money issues have always been a big STRESSOR for him,,,so he worked more, threw it in my face all the time, wrote me unkind notes every morning and pretty much didnt help me with it at all...which didnt help our relationship at all and was very little comunication besides arguing about it. He would give me grocery money and ask to see the receipt and his change, I had to ask him for money for everything including gas, food, groceries, ect  and everytime I did I felt like a teenager...and was told "Im not your bank".   I only worked part time to stay home and care for our sons needs and he made ALOT more money than I did..  OK so thats the background here is the question: He thought that I had credit cards maxed out (not the case, dont have any) and the money issues made us both depressed and we argued all the time. It made him so crazy that he filed for divorce, without even mentioning to me that he was...I feel that working the amount of hours that he did and his stressors really played a number on him.  After filing for divorce he cut back his hours at work (so they wouldnt be looked at during divorce settlement) and now through it all he is so more like his old self, less stressed, and enjoying the things he never had time for before.  He is an active part in our sons life and playing Mr. Dad.  all the things I missed and wanted while we were going thru our ****. We are still living together until the divorce is final, and we actually get along much better...have suppers together, go to school functions for our son  etc...still no "closeness" tho.  I am hating to go through a divorce thinking that we are throwing 8 years of our lives away and making our son go through all this if there is a chance that we cud go to counseling and see if it is Possible to work things out...I dont know if i shud even mention it tho, because he still says he did not do anything wrong and feels like my issues caused the whole thing so that kinda tells me it wont work unless he can see the part in it that he did...and that it takes two and that he didnt actually help or support me thru any of it like he cud have....now that My debt is almost paid off, he is willing to pay lawyers and child support ect...dont get it...My thoughts are this...maybe since the divorce will be over next month, I was wondering if we shud just go ahead as planned but instead of the divorce, is it possible to get a legal seperation and postpone the divorce and see if this can be saved at all through counseling and maybe time apart we would miss each other and appreciate each other in a different way and not take things so for granted...I know things I cud have and wud do differently but I know it takes two...wondering....shud i just go ahead with divorce or put myself out there and see where goes...i dont know if it would work or not or how I really feel either ....mmm any advice????