Hello, I'm looking for any ideas at all regarding a very unusual event that started happening to me around 8-10 yrs of age and still occurs today. As brief as I can make this...I have an odd reaction to too much stimulation is the best way I can put it. If I am in aplace where there is say conversation, music or noise on either side of me, and the the noise one the left say is loud AND goes up OR down in speed, AND the noise on the right side of me goes up OR done in pitch, I instantly see a picture in my head. This will be regardless of if my eyes are open. I also feel a "heavy and overwhelming, "full" sensation in my head, a busy feeling...its very hard to describe. The picture has a black or white background, it changes from time to time. There is a hand in the middle of the picture and a stack of what looks like discs or plates on either side of the hand.if the background is white, the hands and plates are black and vice versa. If the speed of the noise on the left increases,, the hand will move the plates on the right to the stack on the left making the left stack higher and the pace of the stacking and how fast the hand stacks them matches the speed of the nosie. So if the noise speeds up the hand stacks faster and it moving faster is what causes that unusual feeling of heavyness and like my brain is overloaded and is going to explode. I end up covering my ears to drown out the sound...at least one side of it. It doesn't work though. I have to leavethe npost area altogether. If the pitch on the right side goes up and down more radically than than the speed on the left then the hand either starts  on that side or switches to that side...moving plates from the left side to the right, again stacking them higher and faster the higher the pitch and the faster the pitch in increases.it appears too that that overwhelming and "heavy" feeling comes from and at the time the plates start getting too high and hand starts moving too fast. The noise AND the change in speed and lit h of anything from music to conversations also hurt my ears and head. When I describe it to people I tell them its too sharp. They don't know what I mean. I say sharp where others would say it maybe its too much noise. I also use words like sharp or smooth to describe things like edges of things, lines and maybe colors on pictures. Whereas others might say these things are abstract or shaded. Kinda odd. I have a difficult time articulating what I mean because I use different words to describe things. I appear to use words that describe how they make me feel instead of what I see because what I see, I don't " see" it I feel it. I have never been able to get any kind of guess even as to why this happens or why I seem to experience things or interpret things differently, other than one comment about my sight and sound wires being wired improperly in my brain. I need a brain electrician I guess. Any ideas on this would help. More curious than anything but when these episodes happen they are very painful. Thanks!
 Melody