This isn't a question. It's an encouragement for anyone else going cold turkey Effexor ER. 
Not the preferred method for most. 
I'm a fairly small woman. Going from 150mg to 75mg was two weeks of brutal.then after a couple of weeks of 75mgER I decided to just be done if possible.
My week was clear, so I could stay home. 
On Sunday morning I took my last Effexor ER. This is Thursday.
I feel so great I just threw the little devils away. 
The 75 to Zero was way easier than the 150 to 75 for me. I realize that's not the case for most.
I looked and looked on the internet for encouragement. Found little to none.
Seemed most people suffer terribly! 
Don't try this if you are still depressed! I KNEW I was ready! 
Follow your doctor's instructions! But, if you have no other choice (I've read of people who had no way to afford anymore) or if you are a knothead like me and just wanted to be DONE, I'm here to encourage.
Now, I've read that there can be seisures etc. this isn't to encourage anyone else to do this!!!! Be safe! 
I am apparently one of the lucky ones.
The positives are: i'm already craving healthy food again. Not just sugar, sugar, sugar! 
I woke up easier this morning than I have in a loooooong time.
I have energy. It will be awhile before I get stamina. The Effexor Er turned me into an "I don't care lazy slug". 
Last night I finally slept like a baby. No more expensive meds! Yea! 
When I first took them I needed them. I needed a break from the depression. The "brick on my heart" feeling was unbearable. 
Now I don't need them.
Symptoms of Cold Turkey: hissing in ears. It won't hurt you. Just ignore it. It will go away. You will have the most awful insomnia! Just be prepared to read or watch TV all night. It only lasted a few days for me. Dizziness- for me was more like the room tilted. My nausea pills took care of the nausea. Migraine...got rid of mine with otc migraine med. crying....get a box of Kleenex. Don't look at old family photos. It will pass, unless you are truly still depressed. 
Little anger fits ( warn your sig other). Gastrointestinal upset...bigtime. When I did sleep, which was short, I had weird, but not scary dreams. 
Take walks. Eat healthy food. Take vitamins. Drink lots of water. Get support. 
For some of you, at least for me it was DOABLE! 
I'm free. I feel great. It was so worth it. 
This post isn't meant for anyone except the cold turkeys. 
I hope it gives courage to all looking to be free of Effexor Er.