For the past year or so I've felt completely out of touch with reality, like nothing in my life is actually real or tangible. There are some unexplainable things that have been happening to me, things I won't go into that have been confusing and scaring me to the point where I've had to ask someone, anyone what might be wrong with me. I compare my state of mind to that of when we dream and suddenly become aware that we are a dreaming, a lucid state of consciousness where nothing is real and the unreality can be manipulated to a certain extent. In other words I feel like I'm in a perpetual pipe dream where nothing is real and there are no tangible consequences to any one persons actions. Like my state of reality is just a figment. Take a moment to remember how you perceive dreams, all our dreams are perceived in the first person, as we perceive our world in the waking state. However with me I feel forever dreaming, in fact I don't dream anymore and this only fuels my worries and concerns about my mental state. It's caused me to become gradually despondent, to the the point now where I lack nearly all human emotion such as love, hate, sadness, even humor, I rarely find anything funny anymore and find myself in situations where I must fake laugh so no one notices something is wrong. I'll just sit there, quiet as can be, with nothing to entertain myself but my own thoughts, forever thinking never acting or participating truly in a conversation. But I'm happy, I like my life and everything in it, I don't feel depressed or angry at the world... just empty and absent from reality but that is the one thing I do hate, that feeling of nothing like nothing is there, and that feeling of lacking like I'm empty. I just want to wake up. I wish I could explain more clearly, but I'm very tired... tired of it all.
 So in a nutshell; if I were to make a question out of that it would be,
 Why do I feel like nothing is real, like I'm stuck in a perpetual nightmare, where yes to the touch of the hand things feel there but to my mind aren't really. And why has it had such emotionally damaging effects on me?