Starting in around the year 2001 or so, I was diagnosed with Hepititas C related arthritus and Chronic Pain Syndrom with muscular atrophy. Then shortly after, Cavernous Hemangioma of the liver which has been growing over the years.
 Then in 2004 I had a bought of Thrombosis and neurological problems with limbs after that. Migranes and eye pain started. Dizzy spells. Then a year ago I stopped being able to eat. I have been loosing a lot of weight and I am 99 pounds.
 I have been fallling down in the day and hanging onto furniture while the house spins getting in and outer body sensations, flashes of lightning and shadows and halos. At night I sometimes wake in a moment of convolsions unsualy trying to gasp for air and at first think earthquake. Last night the convulsion lasted a long time and I was partialy awake and was hallucnating, seeing and hearing things. My neck was contorted backwards and I thought it would snap. I shook violently unable to speak. I was very sleepy after but fought to stay awake all night.
 I am having bladder problems, memory problems and can not remember how to cook or what i am doing half the time.
 I smell burnt weird strange intense smells no one else can smell. I am cold all the time or too hot. Some days my limbs wont move when I need them to. Sometimes my joints are in so much pain I can not walk or lift up my arms. I have worm like feeling up my spin and in my limbs and uncontrolled movements.
 I AM ON NO MEDICATION AND I DRINK NO ALCOHOL. I DO NOT USE DRUGS.
 Doctor disbelievs me about the convolsions. He wont send me back to a neurologist, wont give me a brain scan. 3 yrs ago I had a EEG, but not the kind where they sleep deprive you. Three years ago I was not convulsing. Of course the scan was normal. but I frequently hallucinate if I have had insomnia. How accurate is an EEG?
 I get up to 2 months of insomnia at a time.
 My diagnoses? Mental illness of the personality disorder disociative disorder type. With possible Schizophrenia and or Bipolar Disorder on top. A doctor, not a psychiatrist gives me this diagnoses before I even sit down in his office to talk to him. I had never met him before. He treated me with absolute contempt. I went to him out of respect for my physician who asked me too.
 My husband and I say............" what the heck kind of schooling did these doctors get? something physical  is obviously being missed......NOT MENTAL! It doesn't take a brain scientist to figure that out.
 Now I am stuck in a small town with a label and they don't let patients move to other doctors or they are labelled difficult. I have had this doctor for 4 yrs. He does not believe you can have a concious sezier or convulsion. What planet is he from? 
 I am fed up, hurt and so very angry.
 Help.