What I want to say to you right now can be shocking, but believe me when I say that I would otherwise not bother you with it if I didn't think that it really matters.
 Once, as a result of different factors, I was mistakenly diagnosed with Sarcoma. At that time, I was also suffering from a broken hand and osteoporosis and these, combined with other findings, caused my doctors to conclude that the disease was at a critical stage. Due to lack of complete knowledge about the disease and belief in my doctors, I was convinced that I didn't have much time to live. Hence, even though I later found out that they made a the wrong diagnosis, for a few days I had to live with the certainty that I was incurably sick.
 I remember that it was the scariest time of my life, but in hindsight it gave me a very valuable experience. It forced me to confront some questions about the meaning of life and the answers I got were very clear:
 I had to cherish every moment and value more the people who are closest to me. More importantly, I realized that I had to do something that matters.
 That's why I'm now searching for someone who can help impart the value of this experience to more people. Her's the shocking part and I hope that it doesn't offend anyone because that is definitely not my intention - 
 I would like to get in touch with someone who has accepted the inevitability of death in the hopes that you will be willing and have the courage to share your experience with more people. With your help, perhaps others will also come to the realization of what matters most in their lives and be motivated to change for the better. You will play a great role in inspiring others through your insights and your story. Without you, we cannot even begin to start this project.
 If you think you can be that brave person, please feel free to contact me at ***@****
 We can talk more in detail then. 
 I just want you to know that we are organizing this anonymously because we do not hope to get any commercial gains from this project.This is not about some organisation or religion, this is only about the fact. We really just believe in this cause.
 Looking forward to hearing from any of you!