I dont even know where to start... my chest is killing me right now and I dont know if its heartache or something else like heartburn (lol) but it hurts...    I cant believe what happened... I cant believe he slapped me twice and restrained me and wouldnt let me out of my own apartment and threw me down on my couch and turned my head really quickly and hard and it hurts still... he even took a knife and pressed it against his chest and told me to push/hit him.. I dont remember the exact words because I was in such shock.. I just tried and tried to get away and the more I tried the more he hurt me .. it kills me inside to type that he hurt me because I cant believe my boyfriend, the guy I have loved for over a year now hit me, pushed me, slapped me, restrained me and didnt stop when I told him he was hurting me...     and now its over.. I told him I never want to see him again.. and now Im dealing with the heartache and it ***** and I just want to cry... it hurts a lot because I love him and I just want him to hold me right now and make everything better but he cant because he was the one that hurt me... I have no idea what I am going to do now or how to deal with this... I have enough sh*t going on with my stomach/cyst and missing class because of the pain and other symptoms that suck and now I have to deal with my boyfriend being abusive and having to breakup with him when he was supposed to be moving into my apartment with me next month and now everything is wrong.. everything is screwed up and I cant take it.. I cant deal with this on my own.. I need some guidance.. some support.. I found a therapist and I may have my first session with her tomorrow actually... hopefully it will be tuesday because wednesday is my first appointment with my new gynocologist to discuss what is going on with my ovarian cyst and all of the pain I have been in with it... Im nervous about that... seriously.. I dont think my mind, body or soul can take much more stress... its breaking me down as a person... its making me depressed.. ugh.. *****.. I swear I have bad luck and it just wont leave...  
 What would you have done? How can I gather the strength to get past this chest pain/heartache that feels soo real and move on? Im really scared that I wont be able to move on because the chest pain keeps reminding me of him and making me sad... but I know I dont want to risk getting hurt like that again..