Hi I'm looking for any comparisons or help or anything. Basically im 24 solo because of that I've been refused a smear endless amounts of times so can't get tested. In2011 I had an unexplained miscarriage at approx six weeks which resulted in me being hospitalised and having blood transfusions due to haemoraging. Six weeks later I fell pregnant again and had a healthy baby nine months later. After I had her I HD another hemorage although not as bad. I continued to bleed very heavily for nine months after and in total had only 18days within in that period that I didn't bleed and the longest consecutive time was three days. I initially had the imlanon fitted which made me very depressed so was put onto cerazette. Both times my hormone levels we're tested and where fine. I had internal exams and a vaginal ultrasound which showed very slight polycystic overlies. All contraception was stopped to monitor but actually fell pregnant again before any further investigations could take place. That pregnancy went fine too and again I had a healthy baby. I started cerezettte about 10 weeks after giving birth and was fine my periods reduced down to spotting every 2 weeks for about two weeks I had a period before Xmas but still felt my body isn't behaving as it should. I had the mirena coil fitted the beginning of January and the procedure was straight forward no issues. I continued my cerezette for a week as instructed whilst it took hold I continued with just spotting again this time for only a few days a month but at irregular intervals I come to last week and I had a full on period for nearly two weeks. It wasn't major heavy but a lot more than I had been getting. This week I've been loosing how I can only describe as bloody snotty discharge but only wen I wipe but its like small blobs. First time it happened I panicked that it couldve actually been a feotus or something but its happened about five times now. My nan died of uterine cancer aged 35 an dim petrified it could b something similar I've also gained 10lb in under two months with no change to my lifestyle. Please any advice as I'm at my wits ends being turned away by docs I just want an all clear or some reassurance! Thanks