I just want to say that before you read this post I am not looking for anyone to feel sympathetic, or that I just want to sit around and feel sorry for myself!  I just really need some advice on what to do to (finally) get out of this situation...
 I am a 28 year old woman who has 2 very beautiful little boys and I have been married for a little over 6 years.  About 3 years ago my husband began to physically abuse me.  I was never hurt bad enough to need to be taken to a hospital, and he was smart never to hurt me where anyone would see, but nonetheless he would do so.  It started off with just pushing me down onto the couch so I would listen to him, and progressed onto things as bad as taking my arms and legs and using me to mop the floor so that I could 'see how it felt to feel used.'  Looking back now I realize that I should have done something to leave while I had the chance, but I have been diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder and as being Bipolar, so now I know some of the reason that drove me to stay.  I was very young and naieve and believed him when he told me things were my fault and if I wouldn't do this or that he would get in my face and hurt me.  And the abuse took it's natural course where it would happen and then things would go back to normal (sometimes even better than normal) and then it would start again. When it first started, also, my husband would always come to me and say he was sorry and sometimes even come close to tears.  We would go from there, because I was gullible enough to believe him.  Then it got to the point where he began to threaten me as far as telling me 'you had better just stop talking...this is why you get beat.'  Now we have gotten away from the physical abuse (for the most part), and have moved on to emotional and mental abuse.  I am not allowed to have friends, he consistently tells me I need to get a job but will not watch the kids so that I can work, he is always calling me stupid and telling me that I am the reason our marriage is failing and if I wasn't such an idiot and could actually think things might work.  He also belittles me in front of our children.  "If mommy had a job then we could buy you that toy' or just says things really rude and very downgrading in front of them.  It hurts, but I am a stronger woman than when I was younger and I do not take heed in what he says.  He uses my mental weaknesses against me saying that I can't have any money because I am bipolar and I may go spend it all, I get called names like crazy psycho b---, and he will not help out around the house (at all...this includes with the kids...will not watch them, bathe them, play with them, ANYTHING) because he works and goes to school full time.  When I told him I was going back to school next fall he gave me the third degree and I still hear about it everyday, and about how I better find the money to pay for it because he isn't going to (he is going to school now for the 3rd time). 
 Now, to be fair I have not been the best either.  I have not abused anyone, but I know that living with me and my manic episodes can not be fun.  I have tried to explain my situation to him, but because he is going to school to become a counselor he thinks he knows how I think and how I feel.  I know that I have hurt him as well as others in my family and I take full responsibility for my actions, whether I had reasons behind my impulses or not.  I still do not believe that his actions are acceptable.
 I know that I am rambling on, but here is my real issue.  I need to get my children out of this situation.  This is not heathly for them in the least and this I know.    It is not healthy for myself either.  I am in counseling, but with the stress and anxiety at home it is near impossible to make progress.  I don't know how to get out.  I have no job, no money, we do not own a home and honestly I am scared that if I try to leave I will lose my children to him because I can't provide for them financially (right now), and he has threatened to take them away from me because of my disorders (which I have never been hospitalized for nor have I ever been unstable enough not to care for them or myself.).  I have no where to go because I do not have family (or friends as I am not allowed) to go to that could help me out of this.  What can I do?  I have stayed here because of these fears, but I don't think that I can tolerate this much longer.  It has become too much of a burden.  Please, any advice would be most appreciated.  I am miserably depressed right now and I need to find a way to help my children and myself start a new life...a better life.
 One last thing.  Please, before you tell me that I must like the situation I'm in or I would have left, or that I should just go and leave, think about the situation I am in.  I do not want to be in this situation, nor do I like it.  I know that I need to get out of here... I just don't know how I can do it.
 sorry this is so long :(