two days before my birthday me and the guy i was dating and some friends decided to go out to celebrate. i remember drinking two tall cans of beer and three shots and with that i felt wasted ive had other times ive dranken more and never felt like that before. so one of my co workers told me that i was all over the guy i was dating at the time kissing him and hugging him i do remember that and i also remember him telling me to stop it. so when we got out of the bar i couldnt even walk straight this was in mexicali, baja california he told me we were going straight to the border and when i got out the cab he took me to a hotel instead after that i dont remember anything i said or did i just remember waking up in the hotel room naked with sperm all over my stomach and other areas. crossing the border was a blur to my mind kept on coming and going at the same time i dont remember much i said after i woke up or if i said anything at all when we got to his  house he left me in my car i stayed there for a couple of minutes calmed down and thats when it popped in my head what happpened what did i do? what did i say? the next day at work i asked him what happened and he told me i kept on asking him to take me with him that i wanted to have sex with him but i dont remember saying any of that he also told me that i was talking while we were having "intercourse" but i dont remember anything i said he told me we did it about three times but at the last time i fell asleep which i dont understand did he keep on going or did he stop to me i was knocked out way before he told me i fell asleep because i dont recall anything. this happened on the morning/dawn of april 8 2012 days past and i didnt get my period and im always on time i told him that i might be pregnant and he completely stopped talking to me so i waited about two more weeks to see if i would get my period and nothing and in those two weeks the only times he would talk to me was to ask me if i had gotten my period so i went to the doctor and it turns out i wasnt pregnant but i had an std when i found out i told him to go get checked up he just brushed me off and i dont know if he listened to me obviously he mustve had it too because he didnt use a condom the three times of intercourse i work with him and its really hard to see him. was i raped? what should i do?