My psychiatrist said I should come here and talk to people about BPD and ways to help cope with it.
 I have been seeing a psychiatrist for a few weeks about my mood swings and depression and today was diagnosed with BPD. I have read a little on it but I'm pretty shaken up and lost at the moment. I can't see any treatments for it apart from ongoing therapy and drugs and my doctor said most people "grow out of it". I'm not on any medication yet and my psychiatrist and I are hoping to combat this without drugs. He suggested getting onto a forum and talking to others to see how other people cope with BPD.
 I don't have any support from family or friends; nobody knows I have BPD, nobody even knows I've been seeing a psychiatrist. Any time I tried to explain to anyone how I feel they always tell me I'm crazy or stupid or that everyone feels that way and I need to toughen up which sends me right back down. I have been jumping from relationship to relationship for years, both mentally and physically abusive, which in all I have developed an unhealth obsession with them. I find that I always need attention or affection, always needing to feel like someone loves me, which I don't even know feels like. When things go wrong, which is often, everything seems to snowball and I end up either spiralling into a massive depression where I feel I can't get out of or get control of myself and can't calm down and the only thing that seems to calm my nerves is cutting myself. Or I flying into a rage and smashing things and screaming. When this happens it ends either in a panic attack or a depression spiral. Lately the rage has been happening a lot more often. I always feel panicked, my chest constantly feels tight with nerves, especially now that I have actually been diagnosed with something wrong with me.
 I don't know how or if I should tell my family, because every time I have tried to tell them how I feel they always seem to push me away and I'm left feeling worse than before. I don't know who to talk to. My current boyfriend is supportive, though he has been through something similar and always compares his experience with mine and always in a way that makes me feel like he's saying he was much worse than I am. It makes me feel like what I am going through isn't as tough as it feels. I don't know. I don't even know if I'm doing this right. I just don't know what to do or who to talk to or how long this will take to get over or what I can do to help or how to cope with this. Guess I just need some advice and someone to talk to that's been through this, or is going through it, or knows someone that has. I just feel so alone in all of this.
 I'd appreciate any information that anyone can give me right now that isn't "just grow up"
 Thanks