Like a few others on here, I'm wondering if depression, anxiety, stress or all of the above is what's wrong with me right now. I bought my first home a little over a year ago that needs a lot of fixing up I haven't been able to do. I am the prime breadwinner in the household. Six months ago I had a total hysterectomy. Not a big emotional issue for me but perhaps there could be a hormone component even though I am on estrogen. Three months ago, my workload tripled and the "help" that was hired is less than helpful. Add to that increased pressure from higher ups to get even more done, faster, while simultaneously shutting down the computer system we used. My work is dealing with Medicare patients processing expedited discharge appeals. Friday through Monday, at least 10 hrs a day, It's a constant barrage of how awful their health, home life, financial situation, etc is. I'm so tired of hearing these problems. I'm also tired of the callers blaming me for adverse outcomes of their appeals and berating me for not understanding their individual situations. Unfortunately, the government doesn't much care about more than their "criteria", special circumstances are just too bad most of the time. I want out but with my educational background, I would be unable to earn the money I make elsewhere. I got in the door for this job because a friend worked there. I tried looking for a little while but couldn't stand the hoping and then being turned down because I'm not an RN. Money is extremely tight right now, I have had to borrow several times recently just to keep going. I am still trying to pay that off. In fact, I have avoided going to a doctor yet because of co-pays and prescription costs, etc. It's gotten to the point that I have all these ideas of changing jobs, increasing my education, add a part-time job and soforth, but I can't even get myself out of my house to go for a walk in the park without hours of arguing with myself. I sit and do crosswords or read newspapers online, TV on, and not really paying attention to either. I just feel paralyzed. When my partner or daughter are home, or when I'm at work, I somehow put on a good face most of the time and function well enough. Occasionally I do slip and get overemotional for (to others) no real reason but overall I seem ok. I love my family and know they love me and I don't feel worthless or unimportant. I also know that I am damned good at my job. I just feel so overwhelmed and trapped that I just want to get rid of the house and responsibilities and just rest. But, again, I can't even consider moving because my 16 yr old daughter is in an excellent school and thriving. She's gone from failing grades in junior high to being a National Honor Society member and I don't want to risk messing that up. She's been through a lot, in fact, in November we are supposed to testify against her father for raping her 4 yrs ago. I can't believe how long things can be delayed in court proceedings, it's been rescheduled 5 times already. Looks like I've written a book here, guess it's because I can't talk to anyone about all this. I don't want to make my family feel responsible bad because they can't help and I don't want to be a negative person at work. Several years ago when I was in another high-stress job I was put on Prozac but after a couple of months I was fired from the job. I went to Sedona, AZ for a week and felt so much better, I quit taking the meds and have been fine until now. I suppose I'm just trying to find out if I should give in and go to a doctor or get advice on how to get out of this paralysis and make some kind of life changes. I don't know, maybe I just wanted to vent some. I just don't know.