I'm not sure which forum to post this in, but I'm 19 going on 20 and a very big hypochondriat. I just need to list all this stuff off in one big burst and just get this off my chest. I've been feeling not like myself for a while, and I've also been smoking marijuana since I was 16. I'm giong to list off each disorder I think I have and reasons I can have it and reasons I might not.
ADD:
Why: always moving, always thinking, always waiting for my turn to do something, difficulty concentrating, I like to start different projects, lose my keys all the time because I'm always thinking so I forget where I put them until I find them haha, I tune people out accidently, I'm easily fustrated.
Why not: It seems like I wouldn't be so distressed by my disorganization if it was something that minor.
 Schizophrenia
Why: think too much, lost in thouight, detachment from reality, I sometimes worry if I;m acting normal and if I feel like I'm not people will notice and start talking about it, so I get anxiety then act weirder
 Why not: Mostly what I read about Schizophrenia has been more extreme than that and I think at least someone at this point would have noticed something. I could be considering it because I might have ADD with a mixture of depression and anxiety, which might be able able to explain my feeling of detachment from reality and feelingemotionally numb sometimes.
 Dissociative Identity
Why: seem to be introvert sometimes and extrovert other times, somedays I feel like I want to be the bad guy in a game like Fable, somedays I like to be the good guy, somedays I try being really nice and caring and other days I stop caring because it seems like it takes too much work constantly being super nice, but then I feel like when I stop caring I start making stupid rude jokes that people find funny but then some people don't like it so I have to act different around them because I feel like I'm being too mean, perception changes, I feel like my voice sounds different sometimes but when I ask anyone (inlcuing my mom or my girlfriend) they say I sound exactly the same, I act different around different people and if I act one way towards one person (for example I'm an ******* but always joking) and a different way towards someone else (for example I'm really nice and considerate) and they are both in the same room, I usually don't know what to do.
 Why not: I don't have seperate identities (I'm always Neil) and my likes always stay the same and even though I forget things, I always know where I'm at and how I got there and things like that and I always talk in the same way which I'm not relating to the way my voice sounds, I've had no truly traumatic experiences in that I'm trying to repress though my little brother died when I was 3 and I didn't really think about it, more like just though he isn't here anymore and he's not coming back, but not in a bad (or good) way. Itm ight just be some sort of mood swing or something that I get, which brings be to the next one.
 Bipolar
Why: somedays I'm depressed and somedays I'm king of the universe (but a lot more of the depressed feeling for the past couple months). I get anxiety. Look at DID for things that could be mood swings,
 Why not: good question
 Narcissim
Why: I think that I could have any number of completely rare psychological disorders, I think that I can pretty much be better than most of the population at most things, I pretty much strive to be perfect and if I fall short than it gets to me, I get pretty cmopetitive, it could be an underlying cause to my depression because things didn't turn out exactly how I wanted. Paradox: a narcissist only thinks of themselves and only think of people as tools for them to gain some sort of benifit, but isn't everyone that what everyone does? Are we not friends with people to at least have some one to talk to so that our views can be heard ot to hear their views to improve on our own? Or for them to make us laugh or so that we can make them laugh and feel good that we caused that laughter? For what reason would anyone become friends with anyone with some sort of underlying potential benifit? What seperates a confident person from a narcissist and where do I stand on the spectrum? I know I think about things like this more tham most people, but does this make me anysmarter or better at all even? I want to think so but I can't seem to find any benifit from thinking so deeply.
 Why Not: Maybe tooting my own horn isn't such a bad thing.