WELCOME TO THE TEEN PREGNANCY CONCERN FORUM! 
 Did you just recently take a pregnancy test and find out you're pregnant or are you close to delivery? Perhaps you simply need some help! No matter how or why you found our forum, allow us to welcome you!!! 
 The Teen Pregnancy Concern community is comprised of teen-aged girls, in many stages of pregnancy or non-pregnancy, ethnicities, countries, beliefs, and you may even find some concerned fathers-to-be from time-to-time.  
 Here are a few suggestions for making the most of your visits: 
 1) Be sure to check out the "Health Pages." The link is in the upper right hand corner of your screen. “Health Pages” address topics relevant to pregnancy. Among the pages is list of common pregnancy a great resource! If you are currently confused about whether you may be pregnant or not, there is also a wonderful thread in the "Health Pages" related to "Am I Pregnant?" 
 2) Please JOIN the community. Once you have had a chance to look around, why not create a profile and tell us a little about yourself? Your profile can be as simple or as complex as you like. In any event, you will meet people from around the globe! You will have the opportunity to learn from others who share your concerns. 
 3) Consider posting on a current thread or starting one of your own. Don’t worry - you’ll get the hang of it very quickly. You’ll find that you will want to come back often to check up on your new friends. If you’ve got something on your mind, please don’t be shy. There are no dumb questions and we are all here to learn.** 
 4) Get acquainted with other members. There are several ways to “Add a Friend” but one of the easiest is to scroll over the member’s name and click on “Add a Friend”. 
 5) Consider keeping a journal. Your journal can be private, public, or available only to those people you have added as a friend. Journals are a great way to share your story, frustrations, experiences, history, etc. You will probably find there are others who can relate to your story. 
 6) Want to speak privately to another member? Send a private message (PM) by scrolling over the member’s name and clicking on “Send Message”. 
 7) Only have a minute and want to welcome a member, or send good luck wishes? Scroll over the member’s name and click on “Send a Note.” Unlike PMs, everyone can view “Notes”. 
 8) Once you’ve created a profile, click on “My MedHelp” (indicated by a little red heart at the top of your screen). Check out the many great features: settings, trackers, notes, message, photos. We have a wonderful Pregnancy Tracker and a Baby Tracker, too! 
 **Please read the Terms of Use at the bottom of your screen. There are a few general posting guidelines that are for the benefit of all community members. Please do not hijack another member’s thread. If your comments are relevant with the current discussion, post away. If you have a new topic of interest, please begin a new post. 
 We are so glad you are here! We would love to have you join our community! Pull up a chair, get comfortable and get ready to meet a great bunch of people! 
 We invite our current members to welcome our new members! Leave a little message of welcome and a little information about how this forum and community has helped you through your journey..
. 
 ***PLEASE NOTE: topics on "trying to conceive" are prohibited from this community and will be deleted.***
 Your Community Leader