A few years back my brothers wife flew off the handle at my mother. Nobody knows why, no explanation was given, but the were alot of hurtfull things said to my mom by my brothers wife. My mom was in shock, she had just let this woman into her house in trust and got nothing but an hour of abuse from her. Not once did my mom say a word to her, not wanting to close any doors to ruin the relationsship that she had with her two grandchildren. We all wrote it off as Post Partum as she had had a child not long before. My brothers wife had then decided not to be a part of our family, probably due to being embarassed. We Saw their two girls once and a while when my brother would come around. When they received an invitation to my wedding, they took that opportunity to slither back into the family, in a very harsh way, making sure everyone knew that it was only under their terms. My brother had agreed his daughter to be my flower girls, until 2 weeks before the wedding when She had changed her mind, her children could have no part in my wedding. And then not showing up for the reception, having an empty seat at my head table as my 3 brothers were my bridesmaids. My whole family just left it alone, not retaliating at all. Things got a little better after that, we grew closer, she still treated us badly but we wrote it off, it is just the way she is, we all honestly thought and still think that she cannot control it. She always says thing that hurt people, just throws them into any conversation. We all think that she has a mental disorder, but how to you do anything about that? Just recently she attacked again, but at me and my brothers and their wives, left my dad out of it this time. She had arranged a time and place to have family pictures done, after completely ignoring suggestions made by myself and my other family. Told us all where to be at what time and gave us 4 days notice and told us that she needed money by the tomorrow. When she found out that one of my brothers had to work she flew off the handle again, because he would not take the night off work. Let all of us have it, calling all of us just to call us names say what she had to and hang up on us. When we didn't retaliate again there were emails sent to us, more phone calls. It finally died down, they did not show up for xmas, my mom and dad were devistated.
We all received a facebook message from my brother shortly after xmas, telling us all that they have decided that they do not want anything to do with our family anymore, his wife did not feel like she fit in so they wanted to have their own family, without her having to see us. Again, my mom and dad were left out, as they were asked to babysit for a big trip that my brother had planned in 2 months. My parents saw their kids once in those two months. When they were babysitting, we all went out for dinner. My brothers wife did not like the fact that we saw her children when my parents were babysitting. And again, just yesterday, let us have it again. She called me at work, told me that it was my fault that my parents had to take sides to allow us to see her children, and it was my fault that they my parents will never see their grandchildren again, called me a few names and hung up. I retaliated this time, I sent her an email, and told her to please stop phoning me. They made the decision to not be apart of our family, yet she keeps on trying to get in just to try to make things hard for us when we were just starting to be happy again. She sent me an email back with threats. I am honestlt scared of her, the things she said and the tone of her voice. I am stressed threw my eyeballs, this thing just won't go away, she wont go away. In the last 8 months my dad has suffered from a heart attack, heart surgery and a stroke(stroke was one week ago). I am scared for his life, he cannot hannot handle any stress at all, which in turn makes the stress worse for me. I do not know what to do. We are keeping this from my dad as he was the only person that she did not call to ***** at and hang up on. But it can't be hid forever, he is bound to find out, and then what might happen to him as very worriesome for my family, especially my mother. I don't know what to do now...