I recently became friends with my boyfriend’s ex-girlfriend, we had a weird situation for a child but she is the sister of my uncle’s fiancé and after accompanying her to the doctor during her pregnancy along with her sister we became friends. As a friend she is truly amazing and we have shared similar interests and personality traits. I was aware for a long time that she was physically abused by her mother (due to the fact that she abused my uncle’s fiancé too) now this woman is psychotic (her mother) she throws hot water on her kids and gives them bleach I swear, I would become a social worker just to take her kids away. Anyways, since becoming friends with this girl she has shared her stories with me and I have shared mine. She has a 8year old daughter and a 1 month old son. Upon going to her house many times I have noticed that she treats her daughter rather poorly and it breaks my heart like I literally think about it everyday. She shuns her away and uses curse words at her. She yells at her and truly treats her like a maid, “go get me water!” “get outta my room I’m tired of seeing u” “Are you f@%$ing with me?” (yes she asks her child that question) “I’m gonna step in ur face” u get the point! Now she has her son she’s affectionate to him but I’m thinking it’s only a matter of time. Her little girl is not allowed near her brother for too long and all they ask her to do is to throw away his dirty pampers. The other morning I was there and the little girl woke up and said “mommy I’m hungry” and she said “go sweep the yard” Also they live a very strange lifestyle which I don’t judge but they make it so obvious to the child, they invite different girls over all the time that sleeps in the bed with them while the child is at home. And while they do not blatantly watch porn infront of her they do it while she’s I the house with the sound and everything and when she’s passing instead of turning it off they go “close ur eyes before I hit u” I feel so horrible and my heart is breaking for this child because I know this going to grow with her. I never want anyone to feel like I did growing up. So lost. But I have no clue how to help this little girl. Calling the cops won’t help because in Jamaica u r allowed to hit ur child and the beatings she gets aren’t so dramatic but it’s the condition under which she lives that’s the issue really. I want her to be a normal child, just laugh and play and be happy but I’m so scared that she’s going to spiral out of control and just be so out of it most of the time. Sadness. Hurt. Pain. It’s gonna hurt! Telling my friend will just result in her dropping me like a hot potato and make excuses for her actions until she feels better about em.