Hello. I have been on medhelp for a few months & it really has helped me with getting answers to my questions & getting some support. I dunno how to go about talking about this other than to say how I've been feeling & all that has went on in the last few months. I'm trying to figure out if what I'm going through is normal or if there may be something wrong with me. Here in the last month or so I've had headaches often, been kind of nauseous which stopped when I got my cycle this past week, I've been getting real faint & dizzy quite often every day just about, & have been having problems with my anxiety (where I forget where I am or what I'm doing). I was told 2 or 3 times by the docs that I have what is known as Syncope which is a type of fainting. I dunno if they diagnosed me with this because I have a lot of the symptoms or what. It was the local ER because my doc wasn't open those days. I don't actually faint or pass out. I'm not sure what to do to help with this because I've never had a problem before. They did an EKG on me both times that I went & they came back fine both times. Also they took my blood pressure & heart rate while I was laying, sitting, & standing which also came back fine on both visits. I'm wondering if Syncope is a temporary thing which I've heard it normally is & what I can do to help with these problems??? 
In the last few months I have had a lot that has happened pretty much all at once. In May my fiance & I found out that we were expecting our second child, I also was told I had a UTI which they gave me meds for a few times cuz they either didn't work or I couldn't take them since I have a problem swallowing pills. I spotted for 2 weeks & found out that I had a miscarriage the end of June. I had a D&C procedure done where they scrap the lining of your uterus to get rid of the remains of the pregnancy. This was done the end of June. I have been having some relationship problems with my fiance which are being worked on. I am living with my son at my dad's house. A couple days after my D&C procedure my fiance & I spent a night in jail because I reported my car stolen because it didn't go where it was supposed to in order to get fixed. My car is now at a car repair shop sitting until I can pay them to get it back. I have no job, but have been looking since May but no luck. I did however go back to school on the 17th of this month for my second semester towards getting my nursing degree. I also feel like I am pretty much raising my fiance & my 2 year old son on my own. Where we don't live together my fiance & son don't see a whole lot of eachother. I'm just wanting some advice & support & trying to figure out what is going on as far as the dizzy/lightheaded feeling & the constant headaches that I get almost everyday. Is it stress??? etc.