My father had a road rage incident last april. He cut a guy off after the guy was following too closely. My dad knew this was wrong and felt horrible. There was no verbal altercation but he said the same car pulled into the parking lot where he went and the car was tinted and the people were crouched down.
This happened last april and he now just came to me last week and told me something serious is happening.
Hes being watched at work. He says he sits in the lunchroom and sees the same cars driving around and around past the window. He says the cars are following him everywhere he goes. Even if he goes hours away he still is being followed.
He told me only to call his cell phone as hes convinced his house is bugged. When he sees cars following him he says they are crouched down. He is thinking its the mafia.
All this stemed from that road rage incident. My step-mom said when he came home he told her I messed up and i think I messed with the wrong guys. 
My father is very smart and educated and has always been so logical.I dont mean people with schizophrenia arent educated, im just stating his character. He has never demonstrated any paranoia or hallucinations.
Im wondering if its schizophrenia.I just cant see someone going to this extent because of a road rage incident. Maybe one person mighjt do something but to have over 20 people involved including different businesses and guys at his work.
His medical history from what i know is 
He had triple by-pass heart surgery 12 years ago
He has had diabetes for 8 years and has been on insulin for 3 years.
He was having problems with stomach sickness and tests revealed problems with his adrenal glands -however im not sure what the issues where.
He is on blood pressure medication which recently was increased for reasons i dont know.
He is 6`4 and obese.
He is so convinced this is happening.
Can this be a medical problem causing such sever paranoia and hallucinations. What can i do. 
Anyone please help me. I need to do something soon as im afraid of what he will do.