Maria (21) and Denis (22)
 I started dating my girlfriend 3 years ago. We met in a night class that we didn't need to attend. (Chemistry Class) Shes an Italian catholic and I am Muslim, so she didn't introduce me to her family until 5 months ago. I was not practicing Muslim at the time, so I didn't think of the problems that may interrupt, and I didn't know the Italian tradition.
 I have been the best boyfriend one could ever be. I don't drink, go out clubbing, I never socialized with girls too much. I never flirt. I was texting her every morning, night, skyped with her every week. I would be there every second for her (100% committed). She has told me multiple times that if she didn't met me she would look for a guy with all the qualities I possess, which is hard to find.. 
We were so committed and we would always spend time and be happy and almost never argue or be upset at each other. She was so in love with me that even little thing she would always pick up on and be jealous/insecure.
 Her parents accepted me at first,(2 years into relationship when I met them) her dad even decided to take my tires to his garage for winter. Her mom would make me dinners, her sister liked me... I would always clean after my food when I eat, offer my help. I never spent time with her alone out of respect for her parents (So they don't think we're doing something bad).
 I would always get into discussions with her father, who knew I was Muslim and would always ask me about politics, religion, society etc...
 I was helping her sister with essays during my studying at night while her sister would be partying. I made her (my ex) go to college, and forced her to study. I made her better person, i made her be more respectful towards her parents and drink less as it is not classy. I have helped her use her reason rather than emotions when she's making a decision...I would always buy stuff for her mom and Dad when I would go over and be respectful and treat them amazing.
 After few months her father told her that I am not type of a guy who wants to make a lot of money in the future. (Although I am studying double major in political science and sociology at University of Ottawa). He told her also to stop seeing me as it is not going to work due to our traditional and religious differences. He said I might change her and become extremist..
I was a man, I went to speak to him although he has never told me any of this. I confronted her parents in a respectful manner. Her dad told me he didn't want to take a chance because I am Muslim. I cried in front of him, pleased him but nothing.. He told her, that it is such a waste that I am perfect guy but Muslim.
After he brainwashed her, she was telling me later that it might not workout in the future because of our traditions, which she would never bring before ( before I met them and while i was going over)
 Since then (, we have been hiding together for 3-4 months seeing in the car meeting at coffee places, she would come over, while her parents would call her and be concerned. At this point her father would always tell her to stop seeing me - the faster the better and the faster she will get over it.
 Recently (4 weeks ago) she was very cold, I didn't know what it was..i saw her in a car few days later and asked her what it was and she started crying and hugging me and kissing..and kept kissing me...
 Next couple of days she was cold again..I couldn't take it anymore so I asked her what was it? She told me the next day she was dealing with her own issues ...So i asked her did she want a break from me to see what she wants - thinking that she would never leave me due to her love for me.
 She called me 10 minutes later and said 2 weeks break was fine... and 2nd day in a break I called her freaking out saying how much i miss her and love her and cant be without talking to her... She was upset and said we aren't supposed to talk during our break. I realized she was never talking to me like that. So cold, different person, different girl I knew... I asked her if she is trying to forget me? She said "maybe".. I realized, I got a long way to go.. I tried telling her that we didn't try a lot of other stuff like (counseling, letters to her dad - that I intended to write) she said it isn't worth it maybe and that no normal couples do this...At one point she even told me even if her parents accepted it she is not sure. But, when her parents liked me and had me over she was the happiest girl ever, so that tells me that it is all because of her parents...
 One day after that, she called me and told me she doesn't want to waste my time and keep me waiting 2 weeks as our relationship wont work due to her father and traditional differences and different things she wants to do in the future (although I told her to do whatever she wants with kids as long as I can get to keep her....
 It's been 3 weeks so far we haven't talked much..She has been so cold and so mean to me, in order to push me away..I have tried everything possible to get her back and make her be with me again. Her friends told me she loves me so much but cant continue due to so much anxiety and pressure and stress caused by hiding from her parents..
 Will she come back? Does she love me? If she loved me would she leave her parents' opinion?She told me she wants to move on and forget as it is better for both of us but ....It's so hard i don't know what will happen...It's been about 4 weeks that we haven't talked much. Except little things and me trying so much to bring and draw those memories of us and our love, and how much we need each other...I have lost my mind trying so much, texting, calling all her friends. I have used every atom of my energy... Many of the friends we both knew that I met through her, ignored me... I talked to her friend (best friend) who told me Maria is trying to move on although she loves me so much...But their tradition is so important to them and her father is so stubborn and he wouldn't accept it.Her friend told me about 3 weeks ago that she wasn't able to eat sleep, talk properly how much she was sad...She said she never saw Maria cry so much before in 10 years knowing her. From knowing him and her, I know she fears him and she lives with him. He is a bully, mental psychopath...
 What is going to happen? Someone help me..I love her so much she is my life.. People say if she truly loved me she would come back or fight for it, but shes a weak character, not strong and very emotional. She doesn't have strength for anything...
 it's been few weeks that we havent spoke ...
 PEOPLE PLEASE TELL ME SOME ADVICES AND WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN ...PLEASE MAY GOD REWARD YOU AND MAY YOU NEVER GO THROUGH THIS PAIN, AND TERRIBLE EXPERIENCE.
 Thank you all