Please advise.
Quote:
New MRI: 13 August 2014
Clinical Information: Post operative, post chemo and radiotherapy state of right temporal Glioblastoma.
Pre and post contrast MR imaging of BRAIN was done using following protocol:
Sagittal- FSE T1
Axial- FSE T1, FSE T2, FLAIR & DWI
Coronal- FRFSE T1, FRFSE T2
Findings:
Evidence of right sided craniotomy is noted, irregular CSF signal intensity area in all sequences with surrounding hyperintensity in FLAIR images is noted in right temporo-pariental region with jmild exvacuo dilatation of right lateral ventricle. After I/V contrast administration no abnormal enhancement is noted.
Midline structures are not shifted. Pituitary, parasellar areas, corpus callosum, optic chiasma, thalami, basal ganglia, brain stem and cerebellum appear normal in signal characteristics and morphology. Both CP angles are clear.
Normal basal flow voids are seen. Visualized cranial nerves appear norma,. Orbits are unremarkable. Mucosal thickening is noted in left maxillary sinus, suggesting sinusitis.
Impression:
Post operative, post chemo & radiotherapy state of right temporal lobe Glioblastoma showing encephalomalacic change without obvious residual or recurrent lesion at present compared with previous MRI study dated 26.02.11
Unquote 
MRI date: 26 February 2014
-------------Quote----
Name of Exam-MRI REPORT OF BRAIN, Sagittal-FSET1, Axial-- FSET1.FSET2, FLAIR & DWI, Coronal-- FRFSET1, Findings:operative and post radiotherapy state of right temporal Glioblastoma. Pre and post contrast MR imaging of BRAIN was done using following protocol: Evidence of right sided craniotomy is noted. Irregular CSF signal intensity area is noted in all sequences in right temporal region with mild exvacuo dilatation of right lateral ventricle. Small nodular enhancing area with surrounding gyriform enhancement is noted in posterior aspect of right temporal lobe and there is adjacent dural enhancement. Midline structures are not shifted. Pituitary, parasellar areas, corpus callosum, optic chiasma, thalami, basal ganglia, brain stem and cerebellum appear normal in signal characteristics and morphology. Both CP angles are clear. Normal basal flow voids are seen. Visualized cranial nerves appear normal. Orbits are unremarkable. Mucosal thickening is noted in left maxillary sinus, suggesting sinusitis.
Impression:♦Post operative and post radiotherapy state of right temporal lobe Glioblastoma showing small residual lesion, which is significantly reduced in size compared with previous MR! study dated. ♦ Large encephalomalacic change in right temporal region (post operative).
-----
end quote