I am not sure I am in the right place but I could really use some advise from people with BPD or BP traits. I was in a long distance relationship with a guy which ended about three weeks ago. We were together for nine months. The beginning was magical. Nothing like i have ever felt before. I could see early on in the relationship that he was often struggling emotionally. He would feel insecure about me, get really stressed over simple things like me not being able to reply to a message of his right away etc. I knew he was cheated by his ex girlfriend and that was hard for him to overcome so I excused some behaviors with that and was understanding. 
 I have been reading about BPD for some time now because his behaviors made me think of it and the more I read about it the more convinced I get that he has it or traits of it at least. To make the long story short, this nine months have been a rollercoaster. It seemed like the closer we got, the more he would fight this relationship. He broke up with me 5 times up to now, leaving me heartbroken and confused every single time. One week he would be the happiest man on earth (and I'd be the happiest woman) telling me how much joy and love I brought in his life, and the next week would break up with me for reasons I couldn't believe considering the amount of love he shared for each other. He would say that he couldn't stand that I was a little bit taller than him, or that he couldn't invest in the relationship and get heartbroken again (sometimes he would convince himself that I would break his heart) and other reasons which I couldn't understand where they came from. It was like he would turn from white to black by his own thoughts and insecurities. He never said he didn't love me or that his feelings for me had changed in any way. The opposite i would say. Everytime he broke up with me he would cry and say how much he loves me but that he should let me go. So I was constantly trying to convince him that he had to believe in this relationship more and help him calm down and get rid of all the negative thoughts. That was so hard for me but I honestly love this person and couldn't let it go since our feelings for each other were there... Most of the time I felt that my own needs and wiants did not exist in this relationship but I would put this to the side cause I could see he needed attention more than I did at the time.
  The last two break ups have gotten me down tn my knees though... He broke up with me after our holidays in september, left me lost and questioning every feeling he had for me, came back a month later more confident than ever that he wouldn't allow this relationship to end and ended it up again through a text, one week before he was supposed to travel here. 
 I am devastated. He hadn't contacted me for two weeks and then sent a message this past Monday, saying that he will never forgive himself for what he has done to me and that he will never forget me. I decided not to reply (for the first time in nine months) and he went on to say that he is devastated because he doesn't understand why he is doing this to me and that he really wants to find the way to proove to me how much he loves me. I didn't reply to this message either and I feel so guilty about it. I feel like I have to protect my self but it's SO hard for me to not answer to his messages (although that was a typical behavior of him which I found harsh).
 I am so confused... These past 9 months with him I have felt every single emotion available. From absolute happiness to absolute devastation. Can anybody help me understand? I really do love him, never had an intention to abandon him and really want to help him be happy and enjoy the good things that come in his life. I miss him more than I can describe, I know he is struggling too, but I feel like my hands are tight. I would greatly appreciate any insights to help me understand and help him in any way I can  if this is possible or help me pick up my pieces if that's the only option I have. 
 Thank you in advance and sorry for the long message