Hi--I was engaged 2 a guy, we broke it off 5 weeks ago 2day-yay!  Anywayz...during our relationship, if that's what u call it, he would alwayz be so rude 2 me.  I would wake up every morning wondering if he was going to be mean, or mad that day.  I would alwayz have 2 watch what i say, and what i do, and how i interact with certain ppl, or else he would get mad.  I couldn't talk 2 ANY guys, even my friends, or my sales reps at work (i was in charge of the reps), or else he would get mad.  I couldn't look at guys, anything.  I would alwayz do things 4 him 2 keep him happy, I would get him cards, buy him his fav game, his fav movie, etc, and he would tell me that he doesn't care about that, he only cares about sex, sex is the only way I can show him how much I love him.  So if I did anything for him, like if he wanted a drink or something, he wouldn't appreciate it.  I had 2 drop everything I loved so he wouldn't get mad, but then I had 2 be ok with everything he wanted 2 do, and I had 2 accept it.  He would get so mad at me, and say the rudest things to me, and then he would tell me that I"m just going 2 have 2 "deal with it", deal with him being mean 2 me.  If he was so mean and made me cry, he would just walk out saying "i can't deal with this" and then expect me 2 apologize 4 "making him mad"  It was himself he was worried about, not me.  If he was upset, he just left, but if I got upset, he got mad at me, I could never be upset or it made him more mad.  I alwayz had to act happy.  AFter we broke it off, he sent me all these txts how I'm fat (i'm not fat!  i'm 5'9" and 140lbs.), he told me that he didn't wanna be with me after a few months and he just had 2 find a way out (i broke up with him cuz he started going back 2 some bad habits), he told me that i'm a **** and a ***** (i've only been with one other guy b4 him and i'm 23), he told me it was just a huge mistake 2 be with me, etc, etc, he just went on and on.  And when we were dating he told me that if I don't give him what he wants, then I'm just going to have to deal with him being mean 2 me, he also told me that "my ex gf's put up with me being mean, so ur just going 2 have 2 deal with it 2".  I could say tonz of stories, but I don't want this 2 be so long.  But anywayz..my questions is, this won't stay with me, will it?  I don't want it 2 interfere with my future relationships (if i ever get 2 that point).  I don't have a problem meeting guys, but I seem 2 find the wrong ones, obviously.  And its kinda my fault I guess 4 choosing them.  I was just hoping that this relationship of being treated bad doesn't interfere or come back 2 me when I am dating somebody new?  Kinda a weird question..but I hope someone can help!  Thanks!