I actually got in a physically fight with my mother yesterday, it was over a tire that SHE BUSTED, that had to be replaced. Well the day before the fight she told me to take the truck and they would take the car to get the tire replaced, but instead i convince them to let me take the car, so she said well we can do it saturday... you have nothing to do on Saturday, i said i have no life, and that was the end of the conversation. The next day i went to school, everything was going good, until she called me after school, my phone was still on silent, a couple minutes later i called her back, she said i was suppose to get the tire replaced, it was like 5 minutes before 3:00(when the replacement time was over), i told her about just getting out of school because of the prep rally. She acted find saying okay, so i decide to stay after school, i told her my plans she acted cool, and i told her about my friends She called like less than 10 minutes later, i missed it, I called back 4 times, she answered on the last one. She changed the whole thing now, she wants everything done when she wants it done, she got mad, talking about a personal appointment that she never mentioned, well i decide to head to the place, to leave the car like told. Instead of meeting me at the place like said they ditched me without calling. I called my dad answered, told me to just come home, i was pissed, she's so dramatic. Well I got home she had a attitude so I didn't speak to her, my dad spoke to me, I spoke back, then went to my room. In my room I thought about the situation, she was on the phone talking about how i was lying. I went down stair to eat, and watched TV for a while, but I was about to explode. So i decided to talk it through she got mad, and said I caught a attitude on the phone, just by saying "what appointment", I didn't. Well she got enough of me telling the truth, she got up and moved my tray, and start punching me in my face, i decided to pull her away, she kept hitting, so I start hitting back, she got on top of me pinning down my arms. I told her to get off of me, she start choking me till I start blacking out, i told her to kill me, I have nothing to lose. Finally my daddy(step dad) step in, he should have been stepped in when she first hit me, she's very abusive to him, they fight constantly over nothing, when those happen and I'm and the room, she makes a smirk. Well back to my story she calls me a *****, saying "Your not suppose to hit me, I'm your mother", how she think I feel? She tried to kick me out, knowing I had nowhere to go. She's been hitting me for a long time, but never have i hit her back, till yesterday. She blames everything on everyone else, she's never wrong in her own eyes. I stress so much because of school and her till the point my hair falls out. Speaking of school she makes me go to places back to back, even though i tell her i have so much homework, she gets pissed. I'm thinking about moving out after graduation. What am I suppose to do about this situation? Please help me