From the time our relationship became serious when we were 21 years of age (we are in our 50s now) my then-girlfriend, then-fiancee, and now wife has often verbally assailed me in front of others in an extreme manner. Each time this occurs she uses the exact same wording as before, her body language is the same and the look of absolute hate on her face is the most disturbing of all. Her outbursts have nothing to do with a monthly cycle or menopause. I have tried confronting her about this after she has calmed down from about 5 minutes after the event to 24 hours after the event and the results are the same: A few seconds (literally about 10 seconds maximum) of listening to me followed by another screaming fit of denying any of it happened at all.  This woman is NOT a liar. She does not lie. She really believes she did not pitch these fits.  Her dad pitches fits like this to his wife as well. 
To show the magnitude of this problem an example is given:
  Wife and I were at a large grocery store in our hometown when she encountered a fried of hers that I did not know. After standing quietly at her side for about a minute I decided to introduce myself at a lull in their conversation. I never got the opportunity. The wife observed me drawing a breath to say something and her favorite tirade spewed from her mouth at about 95decibels. "I'm independent!" I don't need anybody, especially YEEEOOOOOUUUUU ! (wagging finger in my face during the long pronunciation of the word 'you') If you ever do anything to come between me and my independence you'll get your what-for ! "  I still do not know who that woman 'we' met at the store was. At the end of the tirade I turned and went to wait for her in the car. It was at most 5 minutes later my wife came to the car angry with me at leaving her alone in the store (independence, anyone?) and professing no knowledge of her outburst. Literally screamed at me that she did no such thing and that she was not screaming at me while she was screaming at me in the car.
 There are many other topics she screams about and if someone in a group brings up anything remotely related to these topics she often goes on one of her tirades.
 Her dad is like this too.  What's the source of this behavior?  She needs help, big time.  And So Do I.  I love this woman and she is normally quite sweet and loving but this has to stop.  Either by her overcoming her problem or separation. 
Please Help.