i am 15 years old and suffer from severe eczema. i am covered in eczema which is always inflammed so therefore i am in alot of pain, this restricts me from doing things and looks extremely ugly! i am always fully covered which seems weird to all my friends and everyone at school because only my best friend knows and has seen my eczema. i dont have eczema on my face which is the only place so to everyone else i look normal, whenever anyone at school asks whats on my hands i lie and say its some sort of rash i cant get rid of. no one knows how i feel though i cant tell my mum or best friend because i just feel like they wont understand, i dont really know how to explain how i feel right now either i just have to get out my feelings somewhere because i cant take it anymore i cry my self to sleep every other night (writing this now im in tears) and dont get to sleep until early hours of the morning anyway because of the pain from my eczema. my mind is always on it and i cant seem to understand WHY ME it probably seems so pathetic to other people because you dont suffer from this skin condition you can only truly know i how feel if you suffer from a skin condition like this. i am depressed about the way it looks the disgusting inflammed scaly skin! i contemplate suicide everyday and im asking myself this question now, why am i still here? ive never seen the point in my life and my skin adds to this depression. i know that i am blessed with life and i feel guilty upset and just selfish at how people are dying from terminal diseases everyday like cancer but i just dont value my life, i would never wish cancer upon myself because i know how serious the disease is but i would trade my life in a second for someone who was dying and wanted to live. i am never happy and i dont get to live my life like a normal teenager and ive had enough, i really dont know what to do anymore its as if i cant go on nothing matters i cant concentrate on anything else and my eczema/ depression affects every aspect of my life theres no way to get away from it and it makes me hate myself so much i could never tell anyone, and so basically im asking please, what can i do? how do i make myself feel better? because i feel as though a 15 year old girl should not be feeling like this or going through this im trapped in this disgusting body.