3 years back, I met my GF. We went together like peanut butter and jelly. About 1 month later, her mothers bf passed away and I was asked to go to the showing. When we went in I was not introduced at all. I was petrified. Most people have been in a situation similar to that I'd guess. We spent a short time there and while leaving, her oldest daughter asked that we go see her new home. When we got there, all 4 of her daughters were there and they seemed uncomfortable and pissed off at her to the point they had a written list of persecutions which included ME! I said nothing. Then, her ex came in, ranted a bit, called me a homewrecker and told me to leave. I hadn't known what her situation was with her kids or ex, but found out later that they had been divorced for 7 years! Homewrecker?
  Obviously, this was going to be a huge problem between us. We talked and throughout the conversation, I tried to be understanding in her kids just not wanting to see her with someone else. But her the way her ex acted has hung on me. The girls have had nothing to do with us as a couple. Everything they do is without me and my kids. (I have 3)
Example: Christmas, New years, Birthdays, camping....etc.
The worst time was her 2nd oldest daughters wedding. My kids and I weren't only not invited, I got a card from said daughter informing us not to come. BTW, the wedding was held at her ex's home. I don't know what she could or should have done about it, but I know I was to just accept that as OK. That was in July of '07. By February of this year I was so depressed, I lost my job, home, and her.
  I tried to mend things by moving far away, about 700 miles. when I started to get stable, she and I talked on the phone. Then she came to visit a few times. That made me feel that she was serious again. Then she said she was going to move there with me. After going home, she apparently was talked into not doing that by someone or simply had a change of heart about the whole deal. I am left to guess as she never discussed an alternative with me.
 In all fairness, I was pissed and acted accordingly. Meaning I REALLY flew into her. That was the 1st time I was actually having an argument about my feelings. I still feel bad about that.
 Every decision she makes is with others and without me.
  Well, even after all that, I do still love her when we're together. 
She called and asked me to move back here. I told her I would but I didn't have the means to support myself at first, she would need to handle things until I got a job. She said OK. Said she rented a house, so I came August 9th. It's a 1 bedroom house, cute. I HAVE 3 KIDS!!!!! After moving, I sent my 2 younger ones to their mothers for a while. My oldest, 15 wouldn't go. This is the 1st time I've not been with my kids and it's hard. Life altering in some respects. I blamed her. That was wrong I know. I made this decision.
  After about a week, she left. No call or communication for 2 weeks. Herein lies the problem to date. Rather than simply deal with this and move on, I got more and more depressed until finally attempting suicide on Aug. 29. My son was to be spending the night at a friends house but came home for some reason and found me bleeding and passed out. Now I'm without all of my kids, on paxil, unemployed, and shaking uncontrollably.
  The ultimate question here for me is, did I act out of reaction in this relationship, or am I to blame for this, what I consider a great tragedy?
  Thank you to any/all for reading and any possible help.
Blue