My husband and I have been married for 15 years.  I was married before to an alcoholic and
I needed to get away from that and that is why we were divorced.
 When I met my 2nd husband a few years later, like myself, he would have the occasional glass of wine
or maybe a beer at a BBQ, but nothing that led me to believe I would end up with another alcoholic.
He knew I left my first husband for this reason.
 About 2 years ago he started drinking more and more and was hiding it from me.  I should have seen
the signs but I didn't. I blame myself.  He was also using pot which I also do not like and one day
he had a breakdown and went into rehab.  I was besides myself that I am back with the same kind
of person I divorced.
 While in rehab, we had couples therapy and I even talked about how much I dislike people
that use drugs and I did not want to be with another alcoholic.
 While in rehab he even told me I should leave but he was in there and seemed to working so
I said no, we would try to work it out.
 After he got out it hasn't been quite the same, and that is part my fault.  Part of me, inside, had been
screaming and yelling to get far away from this person as possible. He had an alcohol problem years
before he met me and never told me. Now he was having it again.  But, I still loved it him. My first
divorce left me devastated after only 3 years. 
 I have been hurting since he came out of rehab but he has been sneaking drinks and lying about it.
I caught him. I feel like a parent now not even a wife. Each time her hurts me and the time before this
I almost just told him I wanted a divorce but this last time he knew I was on the edge of just telling him
I wanted out but he said he would change.
 It hurts to ask for a divorce from someone you love.  I know I need to do that but I am just scared and
hurt and feel alone.  I an't confide in family because everyone talks and I want to be the one to tell him
directly without it being indirect.
 I have decided I need to get a divorce but I don't know how to prepare.  Right now I am thinking it's
the holidays and things are coming up and put it off until the middle of next month.  Is that crazy thinking?