I get the sudden urge to vomit, it happens randomly, with and without full stomach. When that happens, I’m confident that I won’t vomit but my stomach forces me to do so, my mouth gets filled with saliva which I have to swallow repeatedly. My conscious mind acts abnormally, thoughts which make no sense (as if in a dream) pops up in my brain. The thoughts are similar everytime it occurs. After some struggle with my stomach (lasting 1-2 minutes), I don’t get the urge for vomit anymore but I feel nauseous, my energy level drops, I feel like resting, my body starts shaking and sometimes I fail to remember anything (e.g. something as simple as whether it’s morning or night) and my brain feels so useless (can’t study, think or respond properly), I feel like drowsy even when I was energetic and active few minutes before the ‘urge to vomit'. Everything gets better slowly but my body and mind doesn’t fully recover unless I sleep.
 Events like this occur several times a week, sometimes twice a day. After a week or two, sometimes it still continues but normally it ceases to occur. I lead a normal life for several months, that’s a long time but it comes back. Worst of all, it has been happening to me for several years.
 Followed by these events, I usually feel mentally suffocated. For example, I can’t stay in the shower for much longer, pouring water on my face feels intolerable. Like I said, I feel mentally suffocated and I don’t have problem with breathing. I usually feel mentally suffocated all the time, distracting myself with different tasks make me feel better though, social interaction helps too. Whenever I feel mentally suffocated, my stomach usually feels gassy (upset stomach). When my stomach feels okay, I don’t feel mentally suffocated. Something is connected between my mind and stomach. I don’t think that my stomach gas/acidity is caused by my lifestyle, if my stomach is alright now, it may get acidic and gassy within 5-6 minutes along with change of state of mind (mental suffocation). I feel depressed too and lose interest in doing things I love, everything gets normal instantly if I don’t feel suffocated anymore. My stomach turns out fine too when that happens.
 My diet is okay, I don’t take any food which causes gas, my lifestyle is normal, I can’t see anything that may be causing the issues. This time, I’m getting the urge to vomit like before, every 3-4 days, I feel mentally suffocated almost all the time for the past 2-3 weeks. I can’t live like this, feel like being tortured mentally.
Can someone find out what's going on with me?