I don't even know what to do with myself anymore...I feel like everyone would be better off without me. I hate what I'm doing to my family. I don't think I have it in me to commi sucide, but I can't stop thinkig about how much better my family would be without me. I normally hatetelling people howI feelan what's going on in my life cause there r always ppl who r goin throughmuch worse than I am, but right now Im at my lowest point. I really need help. Please don't tell me to seek help from a psychologist, I just need to vent and have someone to listen to me and offer advice. I just need someone...anyone. I have had soo much stress in this past year. the year just started when i got run over by a car, and I think I have PTSD. Ever since that accident, I have had 3 other life-threatning car accidents. I am soon turning 16, and I will have to take my driver's ed course. I don't want to cause I'm scared of causing myself, or someone else harm while I drive, but I don't want my family to know that I have been affected by the accidents, cause it's my dad who accidently ran me over and he feels guilty enough.
 And I have been trying to deal with my random outbursts of anger, and inability to concentrate (i believ it's a result from the accidents). My grandma is now paralized waist down. She has done so many surgeries, and they have been messed up by the stupid doctor whowas too lazy to put te burning machine (dono what it's called) on the counter so he put it in my grandma's stomach and left it there until he had to close the surgery. She has 3rd degree burns now and he denys it even though doctors in America agree tht he is at fault. 
 My cousins came from Lebanon, and let's just say that my aunt and uncle have 3 kids, when they shouldn't have any. Poor kids. Their mom is a b!@#% and she gets jelous of how much my uncle loves them so they get mentallly abused everyday. I hate seeing them like that. The girl is spoiled and the boys...poor them. The youngest boy is the smartest 8 year old u will ever meet, and the oldest boy is the kindest person ever. They don't deserve to get treated the way that they do. 
 My mom is nearing her menapause, and she is under a lot of stress cause of her mom, and my dad who is always working. I love my mom so much, but because of all of the stress n her life...she seems to take it out on me. The other day she said she wished she never had kids, and she also called me a piece of ****, and wanted to send me to bootcamp for using the wrong towel to wipe my hands. My dad was just standing there as she yelled at me giving me a look that indicated "r u just gonna sit there and take what she says". I just sat there and listened to her insults. I understand her stress. But sometimes, her words come back and haunt me. I quickly dismiss any feeling I get that is negative. I love her, and she is slowly returning back to normal. 
 My mom almost got rushed to the ER last night too. My grandpa died of heart disease, and I thinkmy mom has it too. W r both scared. I try comforting her, but I am just as scared as she is. I don't want anything to happen to her. She's gone through enough crap in her life, and I can't believe she is still able to smile every day. 
 Today I did something that I feel sooooooo bad about an I will never forgive myself for. My brother made me really mad, and he was physically hurting me, and I screamed of pain. He said that it's funny to see me in pain. He has been really mean to me these past few days. Well I am on my thingie, and my emotions were out of control. I got so mad that I said it would be funny if he died. I have a very weird tactic. Instead of cutting I bite my fingers as hard as I can. They turn blue after, but I don't really feel it anyways. I felt so bad, that I really wanted to die. U have no idea the urge. I tried to appologize to him, but he was obviously pissed at me. I would never even think that, why did I say it? I went to the basement gasping for air while balling my eyes out. My chest hurts like crazy now. He camedown, and saw me crying and I told him exactly how I felt now and how I have been feeling. He just hugged me and listened. He is soo loving and mature for his age. I don't ddeserve a brother like him. I told him that he's my best friend, that I tell him stuff I would never even tell my mom, that he is literally my life, and that I would rather have died myself than have hurt him like that. He understodd, and he forgave me. I still feel horrible. I feel a bit better now, but I can't believe I said that to anyone, let alone him. To be honest, if my partens died (God forbid that happens soon) I would be super depressed of course, but if my brother did, I would litterally die. I love him so much, why did I say such a thing. I hate myself for saying that!
 Sorry for that long ramble, I just feel so trapped, I really wanna hurt myself for hurting my brother like that. I just need a friend to talk to, and some advice :) thank you so much for reading this, it really means a lot, and no hate toward what I did to my brother please, I honestly feel bad enogh, and I know how big the impact of saying that is. I can barly look him in the eyes now without breaking into tears cause I feel so bad. He says he forgives me, bu I'm just scared that he will never forget what I said. I told him that everytime I say omething bad I never mean it, that it's just something I say at that moment cause I love him more than anyone else int this world. 
 One more thing. I have to break off 2 friendships. 1 cause she's a horrible friend who think i'm her puppy, and the other because she's so nosey, unsympathetic, and sh ehurts my friends. I just donno how to let them down nicely. I don't wanna hurt anyone, but I can't stay in these fake friendships anymore