10 years ago my children were kidnapped by my exhusband... he took them to the foothills of the Apalacian mountains in KY and isolated them... my son is now 22 and my daughter is 19.. they both exhibit risky behavoir... they both hate me and repeat back to me his lies... the stories are horrifying... his sisters husband was shot in his living room 9 times in the head... in front of his step daughter (20) and his two sons 12 and 10 and my ex sister in law... my daughter now has tatoos... sex with multiple partners... she said she decided at 10 she didn't have a mother and her father taught her how to have sex and how have oral sex, but he did not engage her in it... but he let her have a boyfriend live with her at 14... they live in a trailer with paper thin walls and I know he was listening to the statatory rape of our 14 year precious daughter... my son is disabled both mentally and released from the military for physical disablility... my ex and I have been divorsed for 20 years... he kidnapped my kids and emotionally crippled me for the last 10 years...now that they are grown they hate me... I am finally starting to recover... I need more operations on my leg and I got 2 jobs so I am starting recover financially... In the past I couldn't keep a job... I have picture of them on myspace drinking and smoking dope... it is sick... I don't know what to do at this point... my son is living with a girl who has a little 5 year old girl and my daughter just got a job... but her Father fixes her car instead of allowing her to take it to a mechanic and I am afraid it is going to break down on her some night... my son doesn't work at all... my daughter still lives at home in her fathers trailer... I have no relationship with my children and everytime I try to talk to them they say where were you?  and why didn't you give us money or child support and why did we have sores on us when we were little... Daddy told us what you did... he is a sick man and he has lied to these poor kids so bad... I don't know what to do at this point... I have been reporting this for 6 years to KY police and dfs...they do nothing... they can not prove a thing... she is identifying with her abuser... she says she loves him so much she is going to live with him and take care of him for the rest of her life... 
so my questions are ... what do I do... and how do I keep this pervert from hurting my grandchildren... and how do I get my kids to know the truth... and get some psychological help??? and how do I regain a relationship with my children...