I know its a long shot, but would you mind if I told you my story? I have nobody to whom I can talk to, and I just hoped you might be willing to listen.
 To cut a long story short, my biological mother waled out on me when I was 6 months old. I was left for 2 days until my nan found me. She contacted my Biological Father and he didnt want to know. So Nan and Grandad brought me up. My Grandad passed away when I was five. So it was just me and my nan. At 15 Nan was told she had cancer, so I had to stay off school and care for her. I did all the cleaning and cooking to try and make her life less stressfull. But 6 months later she passed away too. I had nobody. My father then had to deal with me, but I was a burden. He would tell me how useless I was and how much he didnt want a teenager cramping his life. So he got a friend of his to look after me. I became part of the family. I even called them Mum and Dad. At 18 I joined the Army and served 15 happy years, until I had an accident which cost me the use of my right hand. I also was medically dischrged from the Army. Mum and Dad where great. They helped me overcome my disability, and I managed to pick myself up. We moved down from the Isle of Skye to linconshire in 2008. After 5 weeks here, my dad became Ill, and was told he had cancer, he lasted 7 Days. So I had to deal with loosing someone all over again. My brother had moved in with his partner and 4 young children. Mum was at work, my Nanna also lived with us. But she is not in the best of health. My brother and partner would sleep all day, and let me run round after the kids, do the cooking and cleaning. Then get up intime for mum getting back. I felt used. I spoke to mum about it, but was shocked when I just got a shrug of the shoulders.
A year after my Dad died, mum had met another guy. She said she liked going to visit him. He had just had a stroke so she would play scrabble on-line with him. Mum began staying at his house, because she said the kids were trashing her home. My brother finally moved out a few months ago. But mum would still go and spend all her with this guy. I began to fel shut out and not wanted. I tried to talk to her about this, but she would stop in mid sentance, to text him. Or the phone would ring and he wanted to know what she was doing, and why she wasnt playing scrabble with him. I got so down about all this, I plucked up courage to see my doctor. She sent me to see a counceller, which is when I was diagnosed as having BPD. When I got told about this thing I had, I was shocked. Never heard of it before. So I was given some print outs and told to read through and show my mum and nanna. Well I told mum when she got back from this guys house. And all I got was "damm, i forgot to cook her friends dog some chicken". I tried again with the printouts, hoping she would understand. They are still in the same place I put them 8 weeks ago. 
Xmas was hard for me, as lots of people and kids, and I could not go and just be quiet somewhere, as I was told I was being anti-social. So I told mum I was going for a walk. I was gone for almost 4 hours. When I got home everyone had gone. Including Mum. So I text her to see if everything was okay. She was back at her friends, and thought I had gone to bed in a huff. Didnt even worry about me out at 10pm by myself. I know you hear bad things about women being out on there own. I just felt like I wish I had been killed.
Anyway, not seen mum since boxing day, so i text her tonight, and tried to make a joke about loosing my number. Big mistake. Got told I was rude. So I got upset and tried to talk to my Nanna. She said I was the one in the wrong. Im causing mum to stay away because of my up and down moods. When I said that I couldnt help it, it was BPD. I was called stupid. I tried to explaine that when I dont hear from mum, I worry, and start thinking bad things have happened. I said thats the Abandonment side to BPD. She told me to grow up, and im not to text mum anymore. She said I was upsetting her life, and im not worth it. And this is my Nanna who is 75, and I do everything for. washing, ironing, cooking, driving her about, making sure she has her tablets. I am begining to think is it worth carrying on. They dont understand. They just want me here to be a housemaid. I love my mum and my Nanna, but I also hate them. I would like to have some me time to reflect on all this stuff thats in my life. But I cant because i got told im ignoring them. But when im with them, sometimes im okay, but other times I just dont want to talk, but just to know someone is there. but I cant because im moody. Being quiet isnt moody, but thats what I get. 
 Is all this normal? or am I in the wrong? I doubt myself at everything. And not having someone to talk to, is making it very hard for me.
  Sorry its a bit long winded.
 I would like to hear back, if your not too busy, and I will understand if you are.