I am 47 and am still having regular periods although have had two in one month on two occasions and also they are starting to come a bit earlier each month. I have noticed they are getting a bit heavier and lasting longer plus i am having worse cramps and more irritable and tearful. I started getting anxiety back in April and was put on Prozac which threw my anxiety up to 99 and was tried on Mirtazipine also which also did not agree. I had been on Prozac some years back for mild depression with success but this time i was in a right state. These antidepressants seemed to upset my system and the Dr agreed as i got the most awful side effects going. Since all that i have became really depressed and worse two weeks before my next period and the anxiety is getting worse and frequent palpitations and shaky. The Dr felt this is more hormonal because of my age plus my symptoms. She was wary of trying more antidepressants as felt my body is too sensitive and i was glad of that. She decided to try Estrogen which is the gel and to apply once a day and to start to apply the 16th day after start of my period and to carry on until the 3rd day of my period then stop. The thing is i am wondering how i can benefit from stop starting it as how will my body get used to it? I am trying so hard to help myself and have cut out caffeine and try to eat properly by getting friut and veg. I have been taking B Complex,Omega 3 and Magnesium. My intake of B6 is 150mg, which i have read should be fine. I feel i am not getting any better if not worse so there must be a better solution. I have recently been advised by another health advisor that i should really be taking Progestorone instead of Estrogen and have been advised that Estogen will make me worse. I have therefore been researching that and it seems to indicate that my symtoms would be more Progesterone deficiancy related and apparentley i may have too much Estrogen therefore adding more could make me worse. As i am not yet in the actual menopause i suppose its hard to tell but i would like to know whether you feel i would be better with Progesterone. I just want some relief from this terrible anxiety and depression and if i am on the correct medication i may get somewhere. What do you think?