Hello!
 I have seen a few of these symptons around on this website but once i made an account and went searching for some reason they are not coming up so i thought i would create my own.
 I am 26 years old and i have been travelling for the passed 3 years. About a year ago i noticed that i stared to feel REALLY spaced out, having outer body experiences, working on auto pilot, not really feeling emotion, but also feeling depressed, feeling like i am not who i used to be, I often will think that i will forget out to walk? I usually can chat to people about anything and make jokes etc, but i avoid meeting you new people because the idea of talking and being the center of attention when i know my brain isn't working makes me want to curl into a ball and shut the curtains... I don't really know how i managed to keep jobs up to be honest.. I would stare into everyone's faces and if i went onto auto pilot i was fine, if i was conscious of what i was doing i would panic...
 I have returned home these passed few weeks and my symptoms have got even worse! (I have been buying a lot of comfort food, its been a while and all the uk yummy crisps literally flew of the shelf at me) :)
 I went to the doctor, actually three doctors, the first put my on anxiety pills, the second tried to take me off the pills and said its in my head, and the third re put me back on... I am aware i suffer from anxiety as with most people in the world... but i was sure all my symptoms couldn't just be that?? So i kept searching, and i have searched a lot..... BUT I think i have found the reason why some off us feel like this... CANDIDA - http://www.mindbodygreen.com/0-8376/10-signs-you-have-candida-overgrowth-what-to-do-about-it.html 
 And last night i found this http://www.candidasupport.org/free-home-tests/saliva-test/ i woke up this morning and spat in the glass and i was shocked that instantly my saliva grew 'legs' and sank to the bottom of the glass.. IT FELT good to relies that i think i have self diagnosed myself... ( looking back and after reading the link i realized a year ago i came off my contraceptive pill, i also DRANK A LOT of energy drinks, alcohol and ate junk while i was away for the 3 years...) so basically i RUINED MY BODY WITH ALL THE SUGAR GREAT!!!
 So now i am looking at all my options and i am sat here drinking my last can of coke staring in disbelief that i (and maybe you) are going to have to cut out all our favorite things and stick to a strict diet if we want to see a change...
 SO MY POINT being... Hopefully if you have been brought to my question you are feeling somewhat similar, hopefully you have all spat in a glass and are also researching...  
 It would be nice if there are other people out there who are going to attempt this detox or other options with me... :) I'm going to have to start looking for a job soon etc and i want my OLD SELF back!!!
 XX