Hi everyone,
I am new to this and I believe I really need help. To summarize what my situation is, well:
I recently returned from Europe (Spain) have been there for the last 6 years. I had to leave my girlfriend of almost 8 years there.We just got engaged on my 29th birthday, which was this past August. I had to move back to the USA in October of this year because of the terrible economic situation in there, and because I couldn't support my fiancee and all of our bills (it was the hardest thing I ever had to do). I will start to work as of this coming Tuesday (I am very happy and so is she), and I am handling the distance relatively well, but She is in a terrible depression. She was diagnosed and she fought and won depression a few times in the past and I have been there in person to support her all the way and she beat it all the times before. She is currently suffering a major depression and her family is trying to help her get on her feet but they have just had a streak of bad luck medically speaking as well *her father suffered a heart attack, has un-diagnosed depression (stubborn as a mule, doesn't want to seek help), her mother has diagnosed depression, and her sister too(I helped the whole family and made them do new things and took them out as much as possible they are like my birthed family and they all love me like a son). She has some really bad days and some not so bad and some days that I work as hard as I can in  trying to soothe her pain away, but to no avail.
She blames my family for not supporting me when I needed the financial help to get back on my feet in Europe (which is true they didn't help, but because they physically couldn't for reasons I believe are selfish, but it's not my money so I shan't get into that this thread), I managed to have her see that we will make it out of the financial problem thankfully because I found work here and in the 3 weeks that I've been here. I don't know what to say to help her get on her feet. She is currently living in our apartment which we are paying mortgage payments for (she is unemployed and has been looking for work for over 1 1/2 years but with no luck, another reason why I had to come back (I never said this nor hinted at this either, because its not her fault she cant find work), until the end of this month,then she will hopefully move into her parents home because she lives alone with our dog (which I believe feeds her depression even more). We have never been apart for the last 6 years and have been through a lot of terrible and wonderful times together. At this moment she is on a constant defensive and I know from previous times, her illness causes her to close herself off from the world until she can't anymore and then she will start to get better. My concern is that I have never seen her go as low as she is going and its a downward spiral. In the 3 weeks I have been gone her psychological and physical deterioration are almost to the point of threatening. Between myself and her family we convinced her to see a doctor and she is going to start a healthy eating routine (thankfully, because the doctor said she could pass away within the next 5 years if she kept going in the direction she was going in (heart failure was the biggest risk)) I don't know what I can do from so many miles away, I talk to her as much as possible everyday, through messaging applications and via skype in the evenings. She has to prepare our wedding without me there and I tried to do as much as I could with her before I left (we organized our ceremony, the banquet hall, dj/music) and she tells me that our wedding is meaningless and all of the negativity coming from her depression is starting to take its toll on me. I have difficulty sleeping and concentrating because I only think about her well being and look up information on how to help her from here. I would greatly appreciate if anyone could give me any advice on how to handle this. I thank you all ahead of time for everything you may help me with.