Hi.  I am 14 years old and going into the ninth grade.  I'm sorry for the length of this, I just need help.  Read all please.   
 I've been talking to myself for as long as I can remember, well, since 2011 anyway.  I'd say it was a little before then that it started.  But it has always been an issue.  I used to have lists that I kept by memory.  I remember in the 4th or 5th having one list with like 26-30 and others with anywhere from 10-17.  It was so complex and I hated to forget something.  I still hate forgetting things.  And as for the lists, I still make them from time to time, some in my head and some in my memos.  More so in my head and by memory, and I did a few by paper.  The ones by memory aren't as big now, but the ones I've had on my phone in my memos have went past 30 and I think to around 40.  Those lists are things I planned to talk to myself about, and even if I never did, I felt assurance having them.  I still viewed them and ran through them, saying something small about them and what they were.  Sometimes I can't find the words or I don't like the way I word them as I talk, so I get stuck on one topic on the list and go on and on.  It's dreadful.  I haven't made one on my phone in a while, though.  I mean now, I usually try and just say it when I can.  But it gets hard to move further when I can't say them.  When I struggle to say it how I want to, I said it aside for later.  But there are plenty of things I do talk to myself about.  Some things are simple things, like television or music.  But a lot of things tend to be things that really stress me out.  I've spent whole days trying to say and word one thing.  And sometimes they open up more or something else happens and they all pile up.  And sometimes I just want to cry because I can't say them right or because I'm bothered so much by them.  Several times I couldn't complete classwork or tests or something school related because I was too busy trying to talk about something.  And I get scared that people see me sitting there, muttering beneath my breath.  Several times of not countless, I've pretended to be working or something when I was really talking to myself.  And sometimes I guess I somewhat zone out trying to talk to myself and I have to do write at least something from time to time so I have something on my paper.  In lunch one day, I kinda like, zoned out and sat away from everyone else so I could talk to myself.  I think I had people come up to me, but I would just say I'm thinking.  I had my hands over my mouth talking into them.  I think I've got away from people several times to focus and try and say it.  If I don't I get overwhelmed and want to cry or just, I don't know.    I've went outside claiming to check the mail, and I did check it... after like 10 minutes of talking to myself.  Sometimes they pile up and I try and talk about them all and remember them all.  That is very stressful, and even when it's simple things, I get stressed.  I just can't enjoy myself.  I've sat with my earbuds in like I'm listening to music when really I'm talking to myself, or at least having the conversation in my head.  And I often force myself to talk about something or repeat was has been said.  I force myself to do a lot, actually.  If I don't, I get restless or frustrated.  Like, today for example, I made sure my guitar pick was where I left it and I ran back to check it like three times even after I had seen it.  I had to go back, I just, I had to.  And eventually after several back and fourths, I went back and tapped it just so that I knew I had touched it and that it was there.  I did the same with some rolled up gum wrapper the day before.  I was leaving for a friends and I made myself touch that on my way out.  I just, I have to do certain things before I allow myself to go further, otherwise I feel discontent.  It just, it doesn't seem right or normal.  None of it.   
 We all talk to ourselves from time to time, but complex lists and constant, sometimes forced and repetitive conversations with myself?  The need to touch something or feel it, to read words on a sign in Walmart just for my comfort?  I've read whole lists of things, like what's on a box or book or magazine simply for my assurance.  I don't know how I deal with these things, but please, help me.  I'd like to know what is normal and what isn't. 
 Thank you, truly.