My mother has depression, OCD, and social anxiety disorder, and lately it is getting worse. I am 15, and I have Bipolar disorder and OCD, so I get depressed a lot, too, but nothing like this. At night, she will sit on the couch with her head in her hands, and will stare at nothing for hours, no matter how much we try and talk to her, and we eventually give up. This happens every night, no matter what. She is very stressed constantly; she has us 3 kids, and has to go to the bus stop six times a day. (We live on the top of a massive, isolated hill.) She drinks, and exercises a lot in her free time, but always complains that she is old (she's 45) and overweight. She cleans, but never finishes anything because she gets so stressed and overwhelmed about everything, even its only with a few dishes to clean. She also sleeps a lot and cries when she thinks no one is around, about her high school life (there was a VERY bad incident that would make most people kill themselves) and how she never finished culinary school, and now she only has a job at a crappy bagel shop, and is always complaining about how the other teenage employees never work, and so she is always talking to people there, which makes her social anxiety even worse. This is the only job she can get though. My younger brother and sister are complete ***** to her-my sister is always manipulating her to get what she wants, yelling at her, saying she hates her, which makes her even more depressed. She is very spaced-out, and has trouble paying attention to anything. She also put us in BIG debt because she loves to shop, and my dad yells at her for that, for the fact that we may lose our house. She never goes with my dad to see family, or to go to parties with friends, because she thinks everyone hates her (she's very paranoid) but this is not true at all. The only things that seem to make her happy are painting and holding her python around her neck. We are also in a bit of trouble with Dyphus (I am embarrassed to say) and shes been to the hospital, and thinks all our lives are ruined because of her, she is the cause of all my problems, and that she is just a big failure.
 She's been on pretty much every medication, but nothing has worked so far. here are SOME that I know of:
Prozac
Abilify
Lexapro
Zoloft
Wellbutrin
Seroquel
 these are just off the top of my head that i can think of right now. there's a lot more.
like, I'll ask her about a random new medication I'm trying, an she'll just say "no, that doesn't work."
 We're all tired of seeing her like this, even the dogs. It's just killing me to see her like this.
 Anything that can help???!!!
Please, if you know any medications or coping techniques that you know of, please tell me!!!
                                           Thanks,
                                                      a