I have been with my husband since 2001, lived together before getting married and now married for 8 years. I have come from an emotional abuse home as my father used to do the same to my mother. So I would get angry with my husband and did not want to argue with him anymore so I made the mistake to slap him at first. To my surprise he will hit me 10 times harder and say well you should have not done that or touch me. After some talks we eventually got married but over time the fights really didnt stop. We acknowledged that what we did was wrong and after having now two children, we had a nasty episode which I was so distraught I went to the police. The police said that the behaviour was not on, and to work on it otherwise the children might be taken into custody. I felt so cold, things got a bit better, we went to counselling only after I felt pregnant and he did not want the baby. He said that we were just starting to get ahead with our future and we asked for support from family but it did not work out. He felt really bad as well. I have never been so deppressed in my life. We then bought a block of land and decided to buy our dream home. During all the stressful times, I actually got pregnant again, and yes as I felt he did not want to have it for same reasons above, also the verbal abuse in front of my children continues, I terminated the pregnancy. God only knows my sadness and there is not one day I dont pray for those two little souls. Now that we leave in the nice house, kids happy with the schools, my husband still has this anger management issues and refuses to talk about it. We only communicate better in writing at work, telling me he loves me and so I tell him that I want things to get better also for our children's sake. He is a very loving father and my kids love him very much. I had or still have hopes for the relationship to get better. Also something else, he does not smoke, drink, or gambles but his only addiction is escaping from reality and play video games. Almost every night, I am the one begging for some chat, or watching TV, together and he feels I dont give him enough space. We do sometimes but why do I feel so alone. Today he was playing online game and I wanted to discuss claiming a prescription through a health fund and he refused to listen and he thought that as I was not getting the hint, he pushed me slightly out of the way and cursed me. After he saw me crying he did not cared but pretended nothing is wrong and said it was my fault. Please help me too scared to do anything.