I've been a little depressed lately and its for the stupidest reasons. I've been somewhat unhappy since I was 9. I moved out of my hometown in 2010 since my Dad got a job offer. Before that, I had friends from school and was getting to a point where I would hang out w/ them around the neighborhood on my own. In my new school, I acted like a total idiot bc that was how I made friends in my old school.  I learned quickly that all I was doing was estranging myself from the rest of my classmates. I guess you could say something snapped inside me and I could not speak with anyone. I turned into an extreme introvert, so much so that I became known for being silent around my class. I took these habits into middle school, where I made no friends. I was okay with it, got good grades, and i passed off being normal to my parents (i think). High school comes, and finally, I force myself to speak again. I made a good friend who was an overachiever. I became part of this group of friends who were all incredibly smart and most of our convos were about (what was your)grades, classes and colleges.  In my sophomore year i moved again bc of the same reasons, but i felt confident about making friends. By then, i was so influenced by my friends from b4 that I felt I could assimilate myself with the "overachieving" clic. Unfortunately while i was barely ok at making convos with other ppl, i couldn't approach them outside of class. For the rest of the year, I'm really unhappy. My grades dropped dramatically and I started staying up all night to study for some supposedly easy chem tests. my teacher approached me at one point and told me i had the worst grades in his class for some test. i was so ashamed and embarrassed. i started failing every single one of his tests. Eventually, i get a D  2 Cs and 2 Bs. My parents of course, were disappointed, but supportive. I had never gotten a C b4, let alone a D. I hadn't got a B either since Elementary. I'm surrounded my students who are all incredibly smart and ace tests. I also feel disconnected from the rest of society bc I'm not using any social networks except FB. Its the middle of the yr and I still haven't made any real friends. I use a pc to study n the library for lunch and snack and find a quiet place to sit where no one can c me by myself. My grades aren't getting any better either. I've contemplated suicide, but i can't for obvious reasons. I fear the afterlife, pain and leaving only a negative impact on the world. I don't want to hurt my family bc of my selfishness. I know I have an amazing life compared to other ppl out in the world, who have issues i can't even imagine dealing with. I just want to start over in a place I actually belong and where I feel useful. I absolutely hate myself as a person and I'm worried that I dont have a future bc of my lack of social skills and grades. I'm leaving a lot out here but this is the gist of my situation.