I'm a man and have been married for 23 years.  I have 6 children, 3 boys, 3 girls, ages range from 20 to 7.  I have 2 homes.  I live in one and rent the other.  I have mortgages on both.  For many years I have endured a high level of emotional and verbal abuse from my wife.  The first 10-15 years I just swallowed up my pride and self-esteem so as to make peace with my wife.  In the process of being passive and timid for all those years, the family environment taught my children it is OK to be disrespectful to the dad.  I use to get so mad when my wife would treat me with such disrespect that I would yell like a maniac at her.  Then, she would use it against me saying I am verbally abusive and have an anger problem.  So, like any person who wants to rebuild the marriage, I went through multiple books on anger management, understanding triggers, coming up with winning strategies to overcome them, and basically getting a lot more control over angry outbursts.  When I discuss how her disrespectful attitude and words are to me she argues it is my problem.  And I suppose I could continue to overlook it but I just cant any longer.  She talks so sweetly to my children but talks to me with ultra disrespect.  I just finished reading a book called "The Emotionally Abusive Relationship" which is excellent to understand the abuse each partner uses against each other.  In it, the author identifies a pattern called BPD - Borderline Personality Disease - originating from people, who as children, where subjected to abandonment, parental neglect, rejection from parents, inadequate bonding with the parents or extreme ridicule from family members.  These people cannot take any criticism or disapproval, as it bring back strong unresolved childhood fears.  They end up having difficulty creating a close relationship with their spouse.  Knowing my wife's background, this sounds completely reasonable.  But that is just too damn bad because I have come to hate her for rejecting all of my attempts to get close to her.  Rejection for hugs , kisses, sex of course, sleeping in the same bed, sitting together, etc.  I'd be better off as a monk in the Himalayas.  At least I wouldn't be expecting to have intimacy.  I want to leave her and my kids so that I don't have to put up with the disrespect and so I can get some sex now and then.