I just turned 17 and my whole life i have struggled with depression and severe anxiety. I was always told that my parents were just "hot tempered" and so i never thought anything of it until recently. My boyfriend of a year and a half has told me he believes my parents, especially my dad is verbally and mentally abusive, and im realizing that he's right. I NEVER felt i had a close bond with my dad. He never really hugged, kissed, or told me he loved me. My whole childhood i knew him as a yell and screamer who was always unhappy with something going on. Now my parents both HATE my boyfriend because he's fat. Ive talked with them countless times about it but they will not accept me being with somebody who is apparently in a "lower class than me." My father calls my boyfriend degrading, disgusting things as well as his family, and it hurts me because no matter what i can't stick up for him or else ill get in trouble. At one point he told me he wanted to **** down his throat and this made me want to vomit. My mother is always coming to me and telling me what a "lowlife" he is and addresses him as a "fatfuck" around me. They both disregard  how much we care about each other, and my boyfriend has never hurt or mistreated me in any way. I have a younger brother who is 14, and he has sever anger issues. he puts holes in his walls and screams till he cant talk. My father like me has never shown him any real love, and is always screaming at my brother calling him things like a "motherfucker," **********, daralic, worthless, stupid, *******, and things like that. To me he's less direct with the name calling, but both my parents make it clear to me what a dissapointment i am because i choose to date my boyfriend. They've even bribed me with college, saying that if i stay with him i have to go to college close to home. And God forbid i marry him, they wont show to the wedding or let us be part in the family. I cry so easily and when i get upset my mom degrades me even more saying that im weak and i have to grow and toughen up. My brother is hangin with the wrong crowd now and is smoking weed, and ive thought of resorting to drugs like him too. Ive been taken to the hospital and sent home from school 3 times for wanting to kill myself, and i still would rather be dead, but i love my boyfriend with all my heart, and he keeps telling me that we can make it. My therapist has just about given up on me because my parents refuse to come in and talk, they don't want to at all feel responsible for the way i am. I have no clue what i'm supposed to do its becoming impossible for me to keep living like this.