Hi, and thanks for taking the time to read this, I know it's long. I'm new to this community.  I'm 33, female, and have been married to the same guy almost 11 years.  We have 2 kids, age 7 (girl) and age 2 (boy).  
 **Let me warn up front - this thread is not for sensitive eyes.**
 Please tell me I'm not crazy here because I'm not really sure what to think anymore.  Here are three 'scenarios' that are playing out for me and have been for the last 10+ years.  Please read and let me know your thoughts -- am I overreacting here?
 1) The porn - My husband has always 'enjoyed' porn movies/Internet - note that this is not a hobby that we share; I don't care for it.  But IMO he seems to enjoy it a little much, ex. entire hard drives filled with porn, a box of DVDs in our basement, etc.  I didn't discover how far he went with this until after we were married.  He sort of hides this and yet at the same time makes no secret of his fantasies re: anal, fellatio, peeing stuff...  In fact this seems to be all he wants to do / cares about in the bedroom (doesn't appeal to me at all and is not reciprocal).  At first this really bothered me but I have learned to 'deal' with it, and I realize that everyone has fantasies etc. and don't hold that against him... secretly this still annoys me.  This DOES interfere with our sex life, because often, I will just refuse.  His constant advances - which he considers sort of cute and joking - make me feel violated and self-protective.  I have told him this before but he keeps doing it. I think he actually thinks its FUNNY to annoy me with this (and it makes me very angry).
 2) The peeping - Last summer, I went to turn off the family computer and when I knocked the screen saver off there was a folder of pictures on screen from our new camera --- of all the female lifeguards and additional young female sunbathers at my daughter's swim class -- not their faces mind you, but their 'assets' (breasts, legs and rears etc.), in a folder called "Peepin."  I was upset about this and confronted him but he became very angry at me for 'invading his privacy' (which I didn't, he left it on screen!) and that I was making a big deal out of 'nothing' and he would delete it.  Tonight, I turned off my son's game on same family computer and noticed that in his random clicking he had opened a folder that contained folders labeled with girls' first and last names - many of whom I recognized because they were all his (and some of my ) Facebook friends.  These contained folders for all their personal picture albums and profile pictures... It must have taken hours and hours to save all these pictures!  At first I thought it was some kind of app that did it but on glancing at the names it was only young women's pictures... and some of them were from just within the past year.  I confronted him about this and he said this was 'old' stuff and I am bringing up something we resolved last summer (with the lifeguard photos) and was very angry with me again.
 3) The "I'm not actually having an affair, just pretending to have one and involving you so it's ok right?" - Every once in a while he finds some attractive woman in our lives with whom he develops this 'flirt habit.'  For example, while I was at home with my baby daughter, he'd be on the phone for hours with one of his college classmates, and then taking trips into school to help her with her homework (i.e. do it for her).  Now I didn't get along with this woman for what I'll say are personality reasons but he REALLY wanted us to be friends and "hang out."  I interpreted this as, he wanted me to be friends with her so he could hang out with her without suspicion from me.  This eventually ended in him helping her get a job at his company many years down the road, and then losing his job - and harassment of her? was partially to blame (never got the full story on that but he insists she 'made it up and manipulated him').  Last year he flirted constantly and in front of me with my daughter's kindergarten teacher (oh and half the photos from this year's Halloween parade were not of our daughter but were close ups of her kindergarten teacher?? not even her teacher anymore, what??).  Now he wants me to join this kickboxing class at the gym with this divorced woman who's daughter is friends with mine because 'he enjoys kickboxing' - all the while he's doing special favors/errands for her.
 Please believe me when I say I did NOT snoop to get this stuff, even though he seems to believe that I did and accused me of it when I confronted him.  It seems like this behavior is escalating and its not stopping!!  I don't know how to deal with it anymore. I have tried ignoring it but I can't.  It's too hurtful and angering to me, not to mention that I think that some of it is really creepy and stalker-ish.  I don't think I'm unattractive, and I have no idea what is driving him to do this other than some mental thing of his own.  I have a hard time being around him and have no desire to be intimate with him, a lot of it because of these incidents but also because of other problems on which I didn't elaborate.  I don't trust him anymore.  I don't think he's having an affair but he's constantly ogling other women.  I feel emotionally drained, beat down, abused, door-matted.  Sometimes I feel like I've been ignoring/dealing/trying to cope with this so long I wish he would just go run off with one of those other women so I could cut ties and get on with my life!!!
 I think the absolute worst for me part is, when I confront him about any of these 4 topics, he literally explodes, screams at me for about 2 hours about how I want to control his mind, snoop, and not let him have a single private thought.... He shouts at me "IT'S NOT FAIR... EVERY GUY DOES THIS, JUST ASK A GUY, I DARE YOU..."  as if there is something wrong with me!  It gets to the point I have to break down and leave!  Today I told him, I can't handle it anymore, and I want a divorce, after which he promised to basically make my life a living hell, and told me I was a 'selfish b----' for breaking up our family (this is something he knows I have guilt about because my own parents were divorced in a bad way/at a bad time and I really didn't want to, but I can't deal anymore).  All he could do was scream "IT'S NOT FAIR!" at me over and over like a 6-year old (even my daughter doesn't do that).   I have talked about him getting help for this and he 'says' he will go to couples counseling but he makes no effort, nor does he feel he needs counseling of his own or will make an effort to do that -- on the contrary he thinks this is MY problem.
 So here I am, asking any guy that will answer, and any girl who's gone through this .... Is this normal?  Am I making a big deal out of nothing?  What would YOU do?