Hi Im new to this site so Please bare with me I've never done this before. I just turned 22 four days ago. When I was 15 I got into a relationship with this guy who was 23. It started out well and within a matter of weeks I was totally smitten. About a month into the relationship we had our first big argument he lost his temper and he hit me. He apologized after and said it was the first time he had ever done anything like that and swore it wouldn't happen again. It did. I was living with my parents at the time but didn't feel comfortable telling them about it. I wore clothes that would hide any marks that I had and that was that. It got worse as time went on and I tried to break up with him several times but they all ended the same way with him getting angry and hurting me. He would then apologise and beg me to give him another chance and I always did because I felt sorry for him. I don't know why I did, I just did. About 8 months into the relationship he forced himself on me in the back of his car. Soon after I found out that I was pregnant and when I told him he demanded I get an abortion. When i refused he punched me repeatedly in the stomach and kneed me in the back. I later had a miscarriage. After just over a year I broke up with him in a public place surrounded by my friends. 2 weeks later he ran me over with his car and got arrested and spent 9 months in prison. I haven't seen or spoke to him since even though he has contacted one of my friends via messenger with threats towards me.
At first I got on with my life however I began drinking everyday and would throw myself at any man who made me feel special and it all ended very badly but for that I can only blame myself.
I now have a beautiful little girl and life is going better but all these memories just haunt my mind I just can't get them out of my head. I can't talk to my friends or family and ive considered therapy I even booked an appointment through my doctor but just couldn't bring myself to go. I've been on and off anti-depressants for nearly 2 years now and don't know what to do anymore. I want the memories to go away and not to feel so angry.
Sorry for babbling on i just hope that talking to people here might help me find ways of dealing with it.
 Thank you for your patience, it is appreciated.