i found out in April that my wife has been having an affair. We have been together for 12 years. Married for 7 of them and have 3 children.
Its not her first affair, she had one a few years back but we moved on from it and both openly put it down to a learning curve.
This time round is different tho. This is hardcore emotional abuse al round. His wife knows about it i know about it an whats more only 4 months in and our children know about it and they have all met each other even though both i and his wife requested not for the children to meet at an early stage. We were basicly told tough its going to happen... And it did.
My wife has been my best friend for many years. She has a ocd problem she pulls her hair she has done this since being a child and is bald so wears a wig. Odly her partner is un aware of this issue and their relationship is based on many lies and secrets. Im the quiet on in this whole mess. They all send group emails to eachother including to myself and his wife. Where they discuss the affair and the next move forward. Its cruel cold and calculating and i feel very much that my wife has been sucked into a bitter arguement berween him and his wife of which my wife is just a pawn its like a game to them.
He dosnt pay my wife any attention when they have dates together he manipulates it so his children tag along always blaming it on his wife.
Its strange my wife and him argue way more than we ever did they both admit they havnt had sex yet. I kind of agree as im sure the closeness of sex would reveal a wig.
I have been told that now they will be moving in together so my 3 children and his 4 children all sharing a house. Well he must have a mansion as my children have been teased with the crem dela crem yes a room each...so heres my dilema
 My wife tells me costantly she loves me. She tells me her affair is like a car crash waiting to happen. My wife and i have been intimate during this affair well apart from the last 3 weeks as i moved out. I got fed up with the constant mind games.
She tells me she dosnt love him she isnt sexually attracted to him. But gets caught up in the mind games and she is ver very stubborn and wants the last word.
I feel this has led her to a sticky situation that she cant get out of.
Ive comforted my kids asked them to show respect to his kids. And i tell them im here for them and will always be.
But please someone help what do i do other than support my family when and if this mental car crash ever happens. That i have no control over