Me and my husband have been together for going on three years, when we had first got together I was pregnant(not his child and he knows that) everything was good, he told me about his ex that had wanted him back and that after me and him got together she told him she was pregnant with his baby(they were only together like 4-5 months and were broken up for two months when me and his started dating) then she wouldn't tell him about anything with the "baby" then she randomly called him one day while we were outside pretty much just to ask him if me and him were still together(this was after we were together about 4 months) but what got me was he answered the phone.  After that she was out of the picture for a while me and him had some issues after my son was born a nd I felt that he needed his biological father in his life(which has nothing to do with him, ever) and my husband(we werent married then) had talked to his ex again and she had told him she lost the baby, but he told her while telling me literally right after telling her that he loved and missed her, and has wanted to be with her this whole time.  Told me he loved and missed me and all of that.  Then I found out he went and picked up another girl for her "to do laundry" bc he lived with his mom then.  And he said they slept in the same bed(a twin size) but said they didn't do anything he said she kissed him but he didnt kiss her back then said he went to the couch but she followed him so they went back to his room.  And still to this day claims to of never done nothing with her.  After about a month me and him got back together and I forgave him.  He kept throwing up in my face about me leaving him then and that I talked to my ex(my son's biological father, me and him were together for four nearly five years) and got mad when I mentioned nicely him talking and sleeping with other girls when I didn't do nothing of the sort.  We worked throught it(so I thought at the time) we got married not too much longer after being back together and he just kept getting more and more upset about me leaving then when thought that sleeping with someone and telling two girls at the same time the same thing was ohk.  I ended up taking my son to see his father(which was wrong of me not to tell my husband) we stayed with him for about a week maybe not a full week.  Then he left again(he lives in Michigan). Me and him were going to try and work things out but it didn't work.  My husband was telling his ex he wanted to see her and loved her(which I couldn't get totally mad about) I told him how I felt about that ans I apologized to him for going to see my son's father and he got very mad about me telling him how I felt about him talking to his ex, he sort of got offensive like.  I told him that if he was going to talk to her he wasnt to tell me he loved me anymore until he was done wirh her bc he wasn't going to tell us both the same thing ata the same time again.  He got really mad and I stayed with a friend for a while we got back together, then he got emotionally and mentally abusive, he called me a sorry piece of trash that I had nothing better to do with my life that I was nobody and had nobody I had nothing and those kind of things, even telling him how I felt he walould get mad and be like we'll f it then I just won't say nothing at all about anything I'll just stop talking completely.  And made comments like that about it.  I went and stayed with my mom hoping he would have time to cool and think about things and maybe realize it wasn't right and for me to realize it wasn't right for anything either of us had done.  When I had went to my moms he talked back to his ex again and was saying he just wanted to be friends with her, but he was going to see her at her work and he told her for them talking to only stay between them two bc he didn't want me knowing(but I already had a gut feeling he was) I was talking to anyone them only him.  He continue to talk to her even after telling me he was then wasn't, before I left I found out I was pregnant and after I left started going through a misccarige, he didnt got to the hospital with me even tho I told him about it and what was going on, his exact words while I found out about it were" well I'm sorry but I'm going to talk to Ande now bc I can actually talk to her unlike you" it made me feel so much more worse that while I was sitting in the hospital he chose to talk to his ex. I know I was going through a lot right then and I may have been emontional but he shouldn't have told me that, right?  He wouldn't even talk to me much after that.  Then instead of getting a divorce we were going to try and work this out and I told him that if he wanted to work it out he was going to choose who he wanted,me or her.  And he couldn't even give me an answer.  Finally after about a week he told me he wanted to be with me, I asked him why bc Ande didn't want him and he said that she wasn't even talking to him anymore and tha he loved me( it made me feel like he only wanted me bc she wasn't talking to him anymore) I even saw messages where he told her that she didn't talk to him the way she did when she loved him and he would text her 5-6 times and she wouldn't reply.  And he constantli tried.  I admit we've both done wrong(I've cheated on him) but I'm not proud of what I've done all I can do is ask him to forgive me and hope that he does and wants to work through it.  Since we've been back I've felt like maybe he does have feelings for her(why else would he continue to talk to her when he's not with me physically?) I've mentioned it to him and all he says is "well I don't hate her" and I'll tell hi.that that means he still cares for her enoigh to try to be with her and he says " well like I said I dont hate her" and it makes me feel like he wants to be with her in some way or really does still have those type of feelings for her. I know me and hum have had problems and I'm still willing to work theought this.  So far everything has been fine.  I've been trying to help him and tell him more of how I feel and to help him not get so mad about it and to talk with me.  And I try to explain things better to him(I'm horrible at explaining things).  I try so hard to get him to understand how I feel and where I'm coming from, and he always seems to just point out what I have done wrong never what he has done it what good I've done.  So I point out what he has done.  I tell him that the key to moving on is forgiving and putting it in the past not making it our furture, and I think that maybe its helping slowly, but helping.  I just want some advice on what would be the best way to maybe help move past this and to help our marriage get stronger and to be happy together or if maybe we should just call it quits? What should I do? Any advice will be very much appreciated, and thanks in advance!