Hi all.
 New to here and posting for the first time.  I understand that ultimately only talking to a psychiatrist can really give me the "answers" I'm looking for but since I am unemployed and have no insurance it's not the easiest thing to get an appointment set up.  I've read some other posts and people seem to be understanding, helpful and insightful here.  
 I've been in and out of therapy maybe 6 times since I attempted suicide at the age of 15, I am 29 now, pretty much only diagnosed with severe depression throughout all the years.  Just this past June I realized something was "off" again with me, my thoughts and feelings.  It wasn't a huge surprise since my father had just passed away a few months prior and some of my depression and obsessions with death could easily be attributed to his passing.  But I began to realize that it was more than just his death I was dealing with.  So I sought out therapy again and began seeing a therapist and psychiatrist.
 I saw the therapist for maybe a period of three months and towards one of our final sessions I asked him if he had to make a diagnosis on me what would it be?  He told me schizophrenia would be his diagnosis at that time, immediately I began to come up with reasons to doubt his expertise (mainly I justified my doubt b/c he was relatively young and also fresh into his career) and then I stopped going soon after that.  I assume b/c I was terrified of the diagnosis and the stigma that is associated with it.
 One reason I don't really trust the diagnosis is because I don't have hallucinations and don't THINK I have delusions.  But I will list some symptoms I do have and have had-
 1.)Extreme isolation---spending 24 hours a day in bedroom over week to month long periods only leaving to use bathroom and maybe once or twice a day to get food
 2.)Fear of people (mostly what they may be thinking of me) and difficulty holding conversations b/c I'm obsessed with what they may be thinking
 3.)Feeling like things that I hear or see on tv, radio or internet are meant for me and that I was destined to hear/see it at that moment in time b/c it applies precisely to my life and what's going on within it.  One example is since my father passed I've been dealing with the issue of being a man and being strong and such and (I know this is ridiculous buuuuut...) there have been a string of Bud Light commercials recently about the idea of "manning up" I can't watch these commercials without getting annoyed thinking they're pressuring me specifically.
 4.)At times obsessive desire to be a part of some dramatic event. i.e., plane crash, car accident, building fire, something.  To be clear I have no desire to cause an event like this but rather for one to naturally happen to me.  This scares me because if I were to actually be in a plane crash there would obviously be other people present and their well being is not really a concern of my mind when I wish these things to happen.
 5.)Extreme paranoia and feeling like someone is always watching me when I'm out in public.  Not like someone is after me or anything but just always have the feeling "eyes are on me"
 6.)For a very long time I have had the feeling that I'm "special" and that I would do something that would affect the world.  Never knew what it would be but just felt like it would be something profound and would cement my "legacy".  I have always had insecurities so I assumed I didn't fall into the category of having a grandiose sense of self but now looking back honestly I think that is exactly what those thoughts were/are.
 7.)Intrusive thoughts on, at best, a daily basis.  (typically more of an hourly basis)
 8.)Lack of a deep trust with all in my life.
 There are other symptoms I could list but this message is getting too long now. :)  
  I guess I don't really know what I'm expecting with this message.  I can't see a therapist yet so maybe just to hear if other people have had similar symptoms or experiences and could give me insight as to what may be going on with me.  I personally have opened up to the idea I may be schizophrenic, bi-polar, or have a personality disorder.  Although this scares me, I guess the first step in the process of getting better is pinpointing what is wrong.
 Sorry this was so long and maybe confusing but any comments would be appreciated!