Mine is not a question.  My therapist gave me a few tips, and i'm doing them.  For example, exercise, talk therapy (like this support group), good eating, and meds.  Now, I'm waiting for time to do its job, and I'd like to air out if I may.
 For those of you who deliberately and cruelly put people in stressful conditions, STOP.
 I worked at a place where I helped disabled.  When I observed that the funds were not going to them, I addressed the situation to my supervisor.
 That was my mistake.
 He initiated an elaborate and collaborative tactic among other supervisors to harass, intimidate, and threaten my job, my livelihood.  He and others consistently and often daily gave me more duties to perform, paid unscheduled visits to my work area, gave me several unfavorable evaluations, and criticized my paperwork.  
 This savagery went on for several months and then he transferred me to another building with another supervisor accompanied by a defamatory letter to my new supervisor.  He, in turn, did the same for another several months.  (Both worked for the same administrator).  I sought medical advice from my doctor and was put on FMLA.  
 He prescribed effexor, valium and told me to quit.
 Upon my return from FMLA, my supervisor handed me a letter stating that the company would not renew my contract.
 I then hired an attorney and began a lawsuit.  I was subsequently diagnosed with GAD with depression and PTSS.  
 What did I learn from this?  Not to get into politics because it is hazardous to your physical and mental health.
 I am angry because I was an advocate for the disabled, and there must be many companies like this one who are above the law.  Some say anger is depression turned inward.
 Hands up to those who fight for human rights.  I tried but could not.  It is not an easy road.
 And the bad guys?  They go to church every Sunday.
 The lawsuit is going on for two years now, and I'm living on a part-time job very frugally almost at the poverty level.  My family thinks I'm "going through moods".
 Thank you for reading.
 Nava