Hi there
 I'm new here and i have been looking for information and haven't really been able to get any help.
 Right so where do i start...
 I'm a 19 year old guy from the uk. My girlfriend of 10 months has Mdd. She swings in and out of phases of it and it varies in severity each time. We love each other very much and we are like perfect for eachother. Whenever we are together we always have a great time. She means the world to me like i can't think of one person who i would rather spend time with and be with for the rest of my life. She is that great. 
 Her Mdd can affect her quite badly at some points. She can have weekends when she is depressed and down for seemingly no reason and will push me away and not want to talk to me at all and will seem really depressed. She sometimes takes it out on herself which really upsets me :( I do try to help by just being there for her and asking her what's up and if she wants to talk about anything thats on her mind etc but usually its like getting blood from a stone. She just never wants to talk about it or anything? More recently she has changed to taking it out on me. This is something which is rather bothering us as i know she can't help it and its because of her mdd but she whenever we talk and is having a phase where she is grumpy will get annoyed and angry at me even though i do nothing at all to cause it or to upset her or wrong at all. I take it all on the chin and just like say your not being very nice and stuff but it spoils things for us and spoils our relationship because of that. I have asked her to try and help sort it by trying to not take things out on me as it just upsets us and i'm doing anything and everything i can to make her happy and keep her from being upset and stuff. She is stressed at the moment because of the amount of work she has so i'm guessing that is what is causing her Mdd to flair up more often and is causing her to be like that with me. What should i do? Some advice on how people think i should act and what i should do to make things better for her would be great. 
 Should i just if she is being grumpy point it out to her and then just try and do things to make her happy or just ask if she wants some space and give it to her? What do you all think? I love her so much and just want to make everything better and stop her from having a go at me and making things hard between us by being like that with me for little or no reason at all. I just want us to be happy and great and for her to be happy and her mdd not get to her as much. When we first started dating and going out and for the best part of 6 months everything was great and it was not really a problem too. 
 Any help and advice would be great
 Thanks