Hello am new in this forum. I have read a lot of articles to get answers to my questions of which I have observe to my H. My H is drinking and taking marijuana heavily almost everyday. He has a story of addiction of heroine also before until he went to pyschiatry hospital. At present he is not taking this anymore but he did not stop this beer and marijuana. I dont know how to encourage him to go for a test again cox his behaviour is just weird and confusing. He became worst for almost two years now since his father died last year. He started to disappear from home. He will come anytime he wants and no explanation. I was use of this action before but i guess it was due only of his addiction. His late father was the one always searching for him that time. But now its continous and I found out that he is living with a *****(a mamasan). He knows that I know about it. I tired to confront him so many times to choose between this ***** or his family but he diverts back to me by just saying take care of the kids."Im not leaving you"
He will say everytime am mentioning his actions. I am not nagging I feel that I deserve answers. He got inheritance from his father. This is the only thing I guess he done right bcoz he puts everything in my name and invested in my homecountry saying for our future. He is not working rite now and we live only by mans of this inheritance he got. ,but he doesnt want me to put into business here because I am thinking it will be finish if there is nothing coming.When he is I say his normal he plans and thinks good but thats just plan without actions. He doesnt use any of this inheritance to use for his vices. He is getting all from this *****. I left him but he followed me but he dont stop goin to this *****.
I can really confront him about this. The replies am getting is all anger,and saying "Everything is on my hand" I dont know if he is suffering from mental disorder,he is a pyschotic or what? He is loving,caring when he is here acting normal just dont mention about his escapades and affair.I want to go on with my life and kids.sometimes am thinking its better if he will not come back but deep inside of me am hoping he will change. This is one more weird he is doin When he goes out he will disappear on first two days he will call or answer me if I call him saying he is coming .But thats just like that until it will come a week and he will off his cellphone or not answer me at all. I know that he has another number of which he dont want to tell me. I tried so many times to talk to him to see a pyschologist but he is really on denial. I feel that when he is outthere his personality is changing coz of this behaviour. Is there anybody outhere experiencing like this ? Is this behaviour considered as bipolar?