I don't know where to begin. Over the past couple years my mental health has gotten progressively worse. I'm 21 years old and have no idea where my life is going. I have many passions and talents, but I don't know how to harness and execute them sucessfully. I constantly doubt myself and question every move I make. I'm at the point where I don't do things out of fear of not being good enough. I don't like who I am. Rather, who I have become. I came out publicly as gay early in high school but I have always known I was. I am an artistic soul and very eccentric to some, so I feel like a target in the world. The persistent jokes and questions about sexuality. However, I do not feel that my sexuality defines me. It's a part of me but not me entirely. Some people see me that way though. Many of those people are scared of me, I feel. Maybe thats my insecurity projected. I don't hate being gay, I am very proud to be able to love another man unconditionally, I just don't appreciate the labels and stigmas that accompany my sexuality. As a young person, I am undoubtedly looking for a life companion like every other, but my inner struggle repels any type of healthy relationship. So the struggle gets worse. I start to hate myself and convince myself that I will never find love because of the type of person I am. I try to change things about my behavior or mental process but always seem to fail in doing so, because I cannot be anything other than me. I dabble in psychedelics (quite often, not habitually) and amphetamines (very occasionally, not habitually) to try to figure out how to fill the immense void and numbness I feel. They only leave me feeling even more confused and with more questions. I'm tired of feeling abandoned and criticized by the world. Sometimes I feel as though I should not exist any longer. That I'm not meant to exist in the present. Then I think about how life would be if I killed myself, for the ones around me. They would be devistated. I don't ever want to hurt them like that, but ultimately that is how much they hurt me. With the negative energy, the abandonment, the constant disregard for my thoughts and feelings. I feel like a dead man walking amongst the living (and thriving). After all, I guess my question is how do I start on the path to self love, preservation and bliss? How do I stay alive?