I am 30 and for as far back as i can remember (well, with the memory i actually have, because I remember so little) I have always suffered on and off from self harm, bulimia, depression and am currently drinking way to much that is meant to be normal.  I have had help in the past a few times for bulimia etc but i have always believed and known these things have never been the route of my problem.  I have always thought there is something wrong with me, something that i cant explain to 'normal' people.  When I have recieved help before it has always been for a short period of time which is really difficult as by the time i start to open up to someone the sessions are coming to an end and am left with all the emotions that i have finally brought up...then the sessions are over and i feel like i have to put everything inside again.  I recently discovered about BPD, i have tried to tell doctors, etc this what i believe i have and they completly disregard it without asking me about the symptoms.  I have done a lot of research on it and looked into the DSM-IV criteria. i feel like its like reading my life story...but how do i know this is what i have if i cant get a proper professional to listen to me.  For the last 20 years ive hidden how i feel, and discovering BPD has made me understand what i have never been able to put into words.
Can someone tell me...one of the things i hate most about myself is that i am constantly becoming attached to people (normally females older than me...im guessing i want the emotional side of a mum i never had)..i want them to care for me, protect me and love me, when they dont seem like they care;dont phone, text back etc i get really upset, sad, lonely, feel like they hate me and are finding ways of getting away from me and then i just become more needy, texting, thinking all these things about them and why they dont like me so much...then that leads me on to doing self destructive behaviours, like drinking and have recently started punching my face because i dont want to cut like i used to do.  am i just an attention seeker??? i hate that this is who i am but i just constantly feel so alone and confused about how i feel, i want to change so much but at the same i feel like i wont allow myself to.  Is this BPD?? Someone help me, i just want to understand what is wrong with me, I dont want to live inside my head for the next 20 years.