5+yrs and still in litigation.  ED was settled (I'd swear he paid the property mediator, and he changed values of his property at the very last minute so I'd not notice; much more to the story but too long to go into here)....but ex doesn't want to pay court ordered alimony (ordered July 2012, and which was already cut in 1/2 because he lied and claimed his business wasn't doing well...yet he hired more employees just after 1st alimony trial, took a cruise, bought a new van, etc...)  
Then demanded 2nd FULL alimony trial, but has delayed every court date, never submits documents when ordered to do so, if at all (and gets away with it), yada, yada, yada....
I realize this delay tactic is a legal 'game' and deigned to cause me stress, excess legal fess, and force me to give up and walk away with nothing.....but does it ever end?
I've had 3 attorneys thus far.... none are very aggressive (as is his attorney).  I also add that we were married nearly 25 year....I was always faithful (he was not....from the beginning, and admitted so in his deposition...though I had no 'proof' as in photos), I worked in his home-based business but he'd never put me on the payroll so I have no SS work credits, I know he has $$ accounts that he has not disclosed (as well as an entirely new business that he claim not to have started so as not to have to submit the W2s from it) but I cannot prove this without even more thousands in legal fees.....I know in hindsight that he was planning divorce for many years....moving $ along with many other activities.  He also monitored my computer, home phone, cell phone, etc so knew/read everything I ever said to my attorney..... and then sued me, accusing me of doing these things!  Might I add he's an alcoholic narcissist.....
I'm so stressed.... don't think this will ever end.  I was also diagnosed with a terminal, rare cancer back in 1997 which I've been fighting ever since... ex did not care... actually attempted to hasten my demise (known fact, but again no 'proof')..... so now I'm also trying to survive on a small monthly SSDI (still no available therapy for this type cancer) and am on medication for the side effects, am unemployable due to this disease.  I want to be off of these Rx meds which i why I came to the MedHelp site.
The stress of this ongoing divorce does not help any of my issues....
Has anyone else been in divorce for this length of time?  
What do you do to end it when you've been classified a 'dependent spouse, but the narcissist refuses to negotiate or settle and you cannot afford to give up and walk away without the alimony.?
HELP!