I'm not sure if this is the correct forum for this, but I didn't know where else to post it.
 I was in an emotionally and verbally abusive relationship with a man that I managed to escape from yesterday, with the help of my best friend, her boyfriend, and my parents. He was controlling...I wasn't allowed to go anywhere without him, unless it was a 2 minute errand (and even then he got suspicious). He tried to destroy the friendship between myself and my best friend of 6 years, and he also tried to ruin my relationship with my mother. He forbade me to talk to any other guys. He had to know the passwords to all my email, Myspace, and cell phone accounts. He went through my messages, texts, and everything. He accused me of cheating all the time, when he (and everyone else) knew that I've never cheated on anyone in my life. He'd scream at me for hours for something I didn't even do. He'd accuse me of lying when he knew I was telling the truth. He'd tell me "f*ck you" multiple times. Sometimes he would force himself on me when I didn't want to have sex, but I'd have to do it anyway or he'd get mad. I was/am terrified of this man. The last straw for me was when he finally met my mother and was completely disrespectful to her, and made me say mean things to her as well (I only did so because I was terrified of what would happen when we got home if I didn't). Yesterday afternoon, after getting home from meeting my mom, he screamed at me for over an hour, threatening me...in front of my best friend, who refused to leave my side due to her fear for me. She ended up calling her boyfriend, who came over and helped us move all my stuff out and took me away. My parents then drove down and picked me up and took me home with them.
 Ever since I left, he texted me nonstop. When I wouldn't respond to his texts, he began calling me off the hook. I turned my phone off. Then my best friend called me on the house phone and told me he showed up at her apartment (where I had lived before moving in with him) and tried to get her boyfriend to tell him where I am. When he wouldn't, he continued to call me. I also got emails from him. He's shown up at my friend's apartment at least 3 times, harassing her and her boyfriend. Though I'm 2 hours away now, I'm terrified that he's going to show up here at my parents' house. I'm so scared of him, and I'm so scared of him coming here. My friend ended up calling the police, who said they would call and warn him...but I don't think that'll stop him. I'm so scared. I want to go somewhere safe, but I don't know where I would be safe.
 To make matters worse, I'm pregnant with his child. I just found out 4 days ago that I'm pregnant...and now I wish I didn't tell him. My mother is urging me to get an abortion, but I don't believe in them. I'd feel like a murderer for the rest of my life. Plus, it may be his child, but it's my child too. And I'm not going to punish my unborn child for having an abusive father. That's not fair. I'm young (20), and not necessarily in the stage of my life where I'm ready to be a mother, but I know that with the help of my family and friends I would be able to raise an amazing son or daughter and give them such a great life. I don't want to kill my baby. I can't. I already know I could make it so he could never see the child. He does drugs, deals drugs, has an incredible anger management problem, no job, and is financially not fit to raise a child, even though he already has 2. 
 I'm so stuck right now. I'm terrified of him showing up. I'm scared for my best friend. And I'm stressed out about my mother trying to make me kill my baby. I don't know what to do. I'm starting therapy next week hopefully, but I need some advice before then. Any you have for me would be greatly appreciated. Thank you.