I'll just make this as accurate as possible.
 I am very nervous and anxious of having schizophrenia. My father was diagnosed with the disorder and it appears to have come from Post-Traumatic stress disorder from the his experiences during war. I personally believe I may have started to develop schizophrenia through PTSD as I have experienced sexual abuse during my childhood and saw my father be violent to my mother (I am 19, soon 20).
 The symptoms I feel myself are very odd. At times I have delusions, some that feel like they are subliminal. 
At times I may feel, or contemplate, that I am part of a higher ... uh ... plan. That my life is calculated, almost part of destiny. I have had funny thoughts that the entire world orientates around me, that my life may just simply be a film - a recording - in which the rest of the human population are in on. Other times I may have felt that the government has some kind of hidden agenda for the human population, as in taking control of our way of living and perhaps mind control.
 But with all of these delusions I always try to reason and think to myself that it's not exactly possible nor do I have any proof of it. It's like, I know it's not reality and factuality, but I am still somewhat forced into these thoughts. It's like I subliminally believe them but my rational consciousness doesn't want to believe it.
 It feels like I am having forced thoughts. Often dichotomous and opposed. I.E. If thinking about schizophrenia I might suddenly have a forced thought, just simple voices in my head that appear out of no where, that I feel I actually create on my own but on the other hand DON'T WANT to create. If I try to focus on controlling these thoughts and feel "silence" in my head, they don't seem to appear, but as soon as I try to focus on other things again, the overall hazy/blurred feeling inside of my head returns and these impulsive thoughts trigger again.
 It's extremely hard to explain ...
 It's like an OCD of thoughts where I have some subliminal thoughts that I kind of believe but that my rational part of the consciousness doesn't want to believe in. But OCD, as far as I've understood, does not only orientate around thoughts - it has to have a lot of other diagnostic criteria. That I believe I don't have!
 Also it may be worth of note that I was diagnosed with social phobia previously where I was given Venlafaxine. I only tried to take ONE pill, as I felt a bit nauseous immediately and I thereafter discontinued taking any more. I do not know if this was just a mental thing or that I really felt physically sick. So I have not really tried to "fix" myself by taking these pills.
 I personally feel my diagnostic criteria is on the borderline of schizophrenia - almost a beginning phase of the disorder. But I feel that most definitely do I  fit the criteria of an anxiety disorder. In general, I just feel I am going crazy and that I just can't stop it :(
 I have not yet been to my doctor to speak about these feelings as I am very embarrassed about it. I always feel that I will be ridiculed by other people for opening up.
 I'll appreciate any help on these forums. :)