i know This is a 18year old forum but i need someones opinion.  So I started ThisBoy I Was 15 & he was 18. He turned 18 i stayed 15 i got pregnant. So My parents and hes parents  made an agreement that it was better for me to move in with him , You Know Have a Lil Family both parents together like it should be. i Changed my adress & everything put me as emancipated (school registry). So i go to the clinic & than they start asking questions & you know i say the truth i wasnt living with my mom I know So Stupid. They Called Child protective services. They go to the house . and the lady says i cant live there  & that she can put my parents and hes parents to jail & take my baby.  So i wasnt taking any risk i moved out. So the social worker said That a Detective Was Going to check that night to make sure i didnt go back to live with him & get a statement to see if i got raped and stuff. so the detective never came & she was suppose to check on me you know i know how social workers are suppose to check if im fine and stuff. what that lady did is make me suffer for these whole 8 months. i didnt want to move out i was so happy. she ruined a family... Ok now im 16  and hes 19 still. and theres this lady that comes to my mothers houseto check on my brother long story well That Lady Used to be A Social worker and we were talking she asked me why i wasnt with the father and i explained everything she said that what that social worker did was ruin a family & ruined my relationship with my babys father.  ( I Didnt mention This)  When i was about 23 weeks the social worker closed The Case , Why would she close the case ? the baby is not even here & im not even 17 years Old? .  so the lady that used to be a social worker she told me that what the social worker did was not right & she had no point taking me out of the house. She Said that if the case is close i should go back & if anything not to say i was living with the father but just to make sure shes not giving me wrong info she was going to talk to the supervisor .   What Do you ladys think ?  & yes him and i are together but not living together. Should i go back & keep my mouth shut?