I have struggled with low self esteem and a generally bad attitude for as long as I can remember.  At different points in my life, I've been diagnosed with depression, borderline manic depression and ODD (as a teen).  Since I was about 12, I'm now 27; I’ve been on some sort of medication or in treatment.  Nothing has ever really resolved my issues or helped me feel "normal".  My childhood was not completely traumatic... However, my father is a non-functional alcoholic who is quite antisocial.  His antics, in public situations, often left me feeling ashamed and alone.  My mother suffered from depression for a large part of my childhood and possibly BPD as well.  She lost her father at an early age and her mother was very distant.  
 I am often ashamed of my behavior.  I have strange outbursts that leave me wondering "why can't I just hold my tongue".  This happens frequently with my in-laws or others I am forced to be in close contact with.  I have a very hard time respecting other people's opinions.  I feel personally attacked if someone's beliefs differ from mine (i.e.; politics, religion, child rearing).   Instead of arguing (which I'd rather not do at all) my point in a rational way.... I become heated and blow up...usually stating my opinion as fact and sounding like.... well a complete idiot.  I find myself abandoning friends over trivial disagreements.  I am verbally/mentally abusive to my husband, mother and anyone else who I'm truly close to (usually not friends).  I am very easily agitated, and that is usually when my outbursts happen.  I can transform into Dr. Jekyll if I'm running late for work, I've lost my sunglasses, or something I've planned out in my head is not going according to plan.  It's very frustrating for my husband, who is more than understanding, and it leaves me in a constant state of panic.  I'm sure I come across as someone who is completely spoiled and narcissistic.  This could not be farther from the truth.  
 I hate being alone.  If my husband takes longer than expected when coming home I freak out and become Ms. Controlling Crazy Wife... calling him constantly, where are you at, what are you doing, why aren't you home? It's silly and I know this but I become so overwhelmed with anxiety I just don't think.  Don't get me wrong, I don't believe he's cheating... I just feel well... abandoned.  Leaving the house is a chore for me.  I usually will not go shopping or anywhere (other than work) else unless someone accompanies me.  My general feelings are that I'm ugly, I stick out, or I don't have the right clothing.  
 I'm often jealous of people.  I find myself unable to feel joy for friends when good things happen to them... I begin thinking how unfair it is that some people have all the luck.  I'll stop hanging out with people because they are "doing better" than me.  This is because I'm afraid of how I will act... and partially as some sort of punishment to them.  I am very ashamed of this behavior and I realize it makes me sound like a psychopath.  I really don't think that's the case though... although it's frightening to admit I have these feelings at all.  
 In my past relationships, I have found myself pushing b-friends away because deep down it's easier than facing rejection.  Of course, it's never made rejection any easier and I've often obsessed over dead relationships for waaay too long.  I've never actually stalked anyone but I'd be a liar if I didn't admit I've wanted to.  
 I hide these traits from others as I know that I'm wrong and childish.  Most of my acquaintances think I'm quite mature and well rounded... it couldn't be further from the truth.  I just want to be a functional member of society again.  I recently had a child and I just can't fathom the affects this sort of personality disorder could have on him.  I have to change and I know it!!
 Anyhow, I really don't want to be this way.  I feel very misunderstood; of course I do realize this is due to my own actions.  After a little reading on BPD, I feel this could actually be what's wrong with me.  I know that I can't be diagnosed from a forum thread but I'd love to hear from anyone who's been through what I've been through.  Is this treatable?  Am I fixable?  I don't want to be an immature child stuck in a grown-ups body anymore!!