I am an elementary school counselor and the mother of 2 adopted children (from birth). Both are bipolar...possible borderline personality disorder. 
 Concerned with:
 1) My 19 y/o son was diagnosed w/ADHD and bipolar (manic/aggressive) at age 12 and was being treated for both by a psychiatrist. Dad wanted him off meds - failing high school classes - son asked for help and went to a different psychiatrist who does have his medical records re: bipolar BUT HE IS NOT BEING TREATED FOR THE BIPOLAR and symptoms are becoming worse - due to HIPPA, psychiatrist will not talk with me about this concern, among other HUGE concerns in strange behaviors recently found out.....
 2) My 19 y/o son's "stealing/fetish?"  Worked 2 1/2 years as helper in mechanic shop...recently lost his job for stealing a GPS from a client's car and then lying (said he found it in the parking lot - planned to give it back next day); has used marijuana in the past - arrested/probation - broke probation w/marijuana-lied to judge-house arrest; just found out from his boss' family that in Feb. they found their missing clothes for the past 2 years (a 14 year old girl; 18 year old girl;  the mother/wife of son's boss) in his car and he denied taking these. Told them strange excuses - just like stealing the GPS and just like telling the judge he didn't take any marijuana (strange excuses). IS STEALING - STEALING WOMEN'S CLOTHING PART OF BIPOLAR? A FETISH? He has not told his new psychiatrist about the womens' clothing stealing....only on Vyvance....since he's 19, HIPPA policy - the psychiatrist will not even permit us as his parents to ask why he is not being treated for bipolar/to discuss the taking womens' clothing so he can get the proper treatment/therapy. (NO therapy right now.)
 3)   My 24 y/o daughter's sexual deviations. Involved in abusive/3-way relationship with a man and woman for 3 years.  The man/woman are not maried but together for 15 years and have a 7 month old baby.  Man has emotionally abused the woman AND my daughter AND myself. While my daughter was in college in FL (waited 2 years to get into this program) they convinced her (due to abuse of prescription and non-prescription drugs - some of which the man/woman MAILED TO HER) to quit college and come home because they "couldn't have a long distance relationship." She had mixed migraine meds with bipolar meds (given at the ER in FL & aware of bipolar meds) and had a reaction....totally "out of it." Called me to come and help her - 911 called and she was in the hospital/released.  (She was seeing a psychiatrist for her bipolar/drug abuse in FL for 3 months previous to this incident.) When I arrived, daughter told me the man was arrested by the woman for assault on a pregnant woman (had thrown a beer bottle at her.) He was not permitted to come to the apartment w/the woman there. The woman brought all his clothing to the hotel he was at. Next day, he came and threatened to kill me 5 times. I left and reported to the FL police in Gainesville.  Daughter quit school/came home so we cut her off $ since she had quit school several times - this was her last chance - she has to pay back her loan; no insurance; on food stamps/Medicaid; no job/income. Moved directly in with this couple - 1 year ago in June, 2008.  Since then, the man slashed all 4 tires on her car, smashed the front and back windows on her car (all on separate occasions) to keep her from leaving.  Then he slapped her and told her "sometimes she deserved to be punished."  She came home but unfortunately went back to this couple.  My daughter INSISTS she is ALSO the mother of the baby due to their "relationship."  The man did ask my daughter to marry him (when his girfriend was 6 months pregnant with their child) but they have not gotten married.  
 Due to their ages, I realize I cannot control their actions....but I am HIGHLY concerned about these behaviors, my daughter possibly still being abused (since I hardly see her/hear from her) and doesn't see the situation as abusive or "being used for sex" by the man/woman (they had another girl living with them before my daughter and she felt the same way and LEFT.)  
 Also worried about my son's taking the women's clothing; stealing from a client where he worked for 2 1/2 years....headed in a BAD direction and the psychiatrist has NO CLUE about these things and due to HIPPA will not discuss with me or his father.  He is headed on the path of destruction - jail/prison - which might possibly be avoided if the psychiatrist would treat him for his diagnosis and get him into some type of therapy.
 PLEASE HELP.  I am a school counselor but HIGHLY aware of bipolar, ADHD, borderline personality disorder, etc. as a school counselor.  I don't know what to do.
 Thank you!