Hi, I'm completely new to this but I felt like I had to ask for support other than my select friends. My partner and I of three years had broken up last October, however, we have been seeing each other allot since. The reason for the breakup was because when I graduated last year I wanted to gain international experience and teach children in Thailand for a few months. Of course this wasn't as I portabt as my partner but I was at cross roads to what to do next and as I had studied international business, I truly did feel that it would help me in the future. He gave me an ultimatum and explained that if I went that would be it, however, if I didn't, then we could focus on marriage and children which I also want. I love him so so very much, but stupidly or not, I chose to teach in a rural area in Thailand. Immediately from my decision before I went I moved out if his house as he wanted nothing more to do with me, even though I pleaded and pleaded. When I went to Thailand we emailed briefly but it was me begging for him to give me a chance. He made it clear that I had wasted the last three years if my life and that I was a disgusting person with what I put him through. I thought about him every single day. The week before I came back to England I received an email of him stating he found an email if me and it bought back allot if lovely memories. When I arrived back in England, I tried contacting him with no reply. What I forgot to mention is that we work together also, and since I was away he was promoted to manager. I arrived back in work and he was shocked to see me but still ignored me. We finally started speaking and it's just been a sicnificant emotional rolar coaster. He can just cut me if so quickly and have no contact. We started seeing how things would go again (his words- seeing what happens between us) and it was really nice, having meals, staying at his house, but then, I ruined things again by putting pressure on him. I just couldn't handle not just being the same girl he used to adore. It was stupid of me. We argued, and then he's ignored me since. Three weeks ago he kept on ignoring my calls, it was my birthday, I didn't receive a ' happy birthday '. It's been awful. It feels like someone has ripped my heart out. We don't speak but then I see him in work and i can't concentrate. This is just such a big mess. I don't want to love him the way I do and feel this way. I can't concentrate and I'm just not coping. I've not even been back in England 3 months yet, and I feel the weakest I ever have. I've been applying fur graduate roles, being rejected, my works suffering, I sometimes feel like I can't breath. I know how stubborn he is, I really do, but I can't handle the pain I'm going through. You might think this is pathetic, but I honestly feel he is the one, and I truly regret ever hurting him. I hate myself for it. I emailed him the other day explaining how I felt and that I hated the way he's been with me and he just emaile back saying, 'well I'm glad you got that of your chest.' I just don't know what to do to stop this pain. I'm going insane. I've done my research in regards to finding new hobbies, distracting myself, but at the end of the day, I'm 26, living back at my dads, underachieving in my career and without the person I love. I can't cope at the moment.