Hello, 
 I'm a 30 year old women who has been on Celexa for 8 years. I've been dealing with anxiety since I was a young girl, had my first panic attack as a teen. I decided after talking to my doctor to get off the medication because it wasn't helping I found I just stayed on it because I was so afraid to get off. Its been a month I've been off the medication. The first 4 days I had a bad cold other than the shakes the first day I was fine. 6 days after not being on it the irritability kicked in. I felt very angry. One postivie thing I noticed was I didn't feel sick all the time like I did before which I realized was from the celexa. By a week and a half my anxiety was highten so I took two lorzepam .5 within that following week. I felt very distant because of my awful mood but chalked it up to my time of the month because I get very angry when that comes. I don't get a period but even though I don't I still go through all the emotional aspects of having one. Its been 2 weeks since than and for 2 days I felt better like things were looking up but the last week and a half have been hell. Especially the last 5 days. 5 nights ago I felt anxious beyond what I have felt in forever I would have to say since my break down 8 years ago when I went on celexa. It hit me hard the panic attack 5 nights ago so I took a lorzepam and struggled through it not to go to the emergency room because that is all I had in my head to do. I felt as I normally do in these major panic attacks like I was losing my mind. 5 out of the 4 days I've had to take .5 lorazepam to just make it through the day. I usually take it later in the day though because I don't want to have to use it as a crutch. I feel I need to learn to cope on my own but I really don't think I can do it. Is it suppose to be this hard? After a month I feel I should be getting better but I feel I'm getting worse. In one hand I feel healthier than I did because I don't feel so sick physically and more alert but feeling like I have no control over my emotions and like at any point I'm going lose my mind is scaring me.  Has anyone had any of these same experience? Is this normal? Will it get better or should I stop kidding myself that I can live my life without medication and just get back on something to balance me out? I was suppose to see my doctor 2 weeks ago but he cancelled on me and than I find out he is on holidays till end of the month that they will let me know in June when I can get into see him. I feel lost like I should just throw in the towel and come to terms with I need medication and will for the rest of my life.  Thanks for reading I do look forward to hearing back on this topic.