Hi Guys,
 I was raped 4 yrs ago. I was in college, had never been on my own, didnt know how it worked, and ended up in a room with a guy I hardly knew but trusted him simply cuz i didnt know ppl who would cross boundaries without the other persons consent! I told him I was a virgin and he didnt believe me!
 Long story short He put his penis inside me and with evrything that I had in Me I pushed that assole off of me ...and I started bleeding (The time that he was in me for was like 7 seconds I think but it literally felt like it was forever!) Anyways the worst part was what came after i immediately went into the bathroom and shut the door and i started bleeding and bleeding and bleeding...i knew a little bleeding was normal but it wouldnt stop! 4 hrs into it-- it wouldnt stop! I really didnt know what to do or who to call! I come from a very cultured traditional family and was scared to tell em (They still dont know) but it was coils of blooody stuff coming out of me!....till this day idk what it was! When i started to faint and feel weak and the bleeding wasnt stoping thats when i knew we had to go into ER and he did take me (probably cuz he was scared ********) but we ended up in a random hospital but by then the bleeding slowed downbut was still there but the random nurse didnt do much except just push the area with her finger or something... i lied to her and said it was just our 1st time, nothing more! 
 Since then it hasnt left me! I got a yeast infection/bacterial infection ever since then! ...Ofcourse he blamed me for it and told me i gave it to him but clearly im a virgin never even kissed a boy before him so u figure it out! ...I got treatment but it just wont go away and since then i have told 3 doctors about what happened with my rape and no one of them have done anything in terms of checking my body to see what happend with the rape and what those bloody coil things that came out of my body that night were!... Im thinking it is defi related to that as to why my yeast infctions wont go away! THey found some protein in my urine and got it tested for diabetes but NOTHING! ....and now as in last 2 yrs I have been getting funky green stool and its really bad and I googled everything and it says I could have anything from stomach ucler to cancer! I am really scared cuz it means i have blood in my stool and I am only 23yrs old...I made an appointment with the doctor for next week but i just feel like she wont do anything and ill be disappointed with another one yet again!...i cant be spending money everytime but having melena is not a smal issue! I really didnt know where to put this so I but it under Abuse support!... What is your guys assumptions as to what it could be? I know no one here is a professional but this is my way of not panicking about what i could have and kinda asking ur guys support in that sense!