I am married man for 22 years..my wife from Central America. For almost my entire marriage my wife has periods where she accuses me of infidelity and won't talk or sleep with me. I have never cheated on her. Eventually she erupts , gets violent, has tried to stab me, beats on me, scratches me etc. I know if I touch her I will go to jail so I have to find a way out of these situations as quickly as possible. Sometimes that is not possible like when she is driving us at 95 mph down the interstate threatening to wreck the car and kill us both. Or she will act nice and I plan a big night out to a jazz concert or a weekend at the ocean and then she "stands me up" at the last minute...it hurts more than the physical abuse. 
 Why are we still married? Because it is not always bad and we actually have good time . Also I vowed to stay married for our son but he is now 21 years old and unfortunately he has adopted her bad temper but is more aware of his character defect than she is...he makes an effort to control his rage...she doesn't. She has a litany of every bad thing I ever did and will say disgusting things but goes to church and professes to be religous. She never initiates sex or even just playing...it is always me.After her violent episodes she acts like nothing has happened and she never apologizes for anything...maybe 3 times in 22 years. I have had to have the police intervene 5 or 6 times and twice they automatically assumed it was me who was the threat and treated me like a slug...throwing me against the wall, cuffing me...verbally abusing me. My wife laughs when the police leave because I don't press charges.
 I am a somewhat attractive man and I know it...more than once young cute women have let me know they are interested but the price of an affair just seems like too much. What for? Sex? Most of the time I am too depressed or aggravated.or admittedly fearful.
 However I met a woman thru business and we had strictly a professional relationship for 20 months. I began to notice how kind she is and it isn't just me...others notice it about her as well. She is intelligent and I find her physically attractive. Though I don't know her personal details very well I believe she came out of a bad divorce several years ago. She is so genuine. Though I know she is no angel she will often act like one when you need someone to help you.
 I woke up one morning and realized I was as close to "being in love" (which I know is just brain chemistry) as I could be without intimacy. All of a sudden I am uptight around this woman and fear rejection by her. I even stepped out of our business relationship so I wouldn't see her so I could get her off my mind. It didn't work. I am in therapy trying to forget her.It isn't working.
 Now I am trying to reinstate some contact with her because I fear I might never have another chance at happiness. Problem is I don't really know her and so don't know if I should actually take the steps to seperate from my wife. No way my wife will give me a problem-free divorce..murder me maybe but not divorce. I don't want to expose this woman to that **** but I am afraid to lose her to someone else...yes I am being selfish for once in my life.
 Am I wrong?. Most everyone says 'get a divorce first" but with my wife that could take years and this wonderful woman will not be available that long...she has needs to and she is lonely...has told me that much. Am I wrong to pursue her?