I have a very difficult mother to be around. And lately I just want to punch her in the face. She had surgery a few weeks ago to remove two masses from her pancreas. She was hospitalized for 2 weeks and came home about 2 weeks ago, but I have been waiting on her hand and foot for the smallest of things and it's getting so frustrating... She even asked me to get her a pillow that was literally a foot away from her. She is the type of person who thinks she is God's gift to this earth and if you don't respect her then she will make your life a living hell. She is doing this to my husband to the point where he hates being around my mom and it stresses me out because she is my mom. She hasn't liked anyone my sister or I have dated, she thinks no one is good enough for us, or rich enough... Now I know she is just trying to be a mom there but it's frustrating. My sister and I have chosen our partners and she just cannot seem to get that through our head. She constantly tells us that we deserve to be like the "Housewives of Beverly Hills". What she doesn't get is that not everyone wants to be rich and fabulous like that... Back to my husband, he is from California and I am from Colorado, he moved out here to be with me but he isn't making the money that he was back in California... He worked for a construction company making $50.00 an hour where he was only making $9.50 an hour out here in Colorado... Over the summer he has decided that it would be best to move back to California until August and work and save up as much money as he can... At first, my mom thought it was a great idea for him to be away from me... She thinks "I'll finally open my eyes and see he isn't good for me" but only because he isn't rich? (In her words). But now as the time gets closer for him to leave, she is calling him stupid for just not finding a job here and saving up the money... She can't get it through her head that the wiser choice would be to move back there and stay with his parents until he has enough money saved up. Are we wrong for thinking this way? Is there a way that I could stand up to my mom and not have her make me feel terrible or cry each time we have a conversation? It seems like she is the one obsessed with him, because every single conversation, every single day consists of him not working here. It is frustrating and I am getting to my breaking point with her.