I was having some issues and I went to the gynie. I really thought it was either PCOS or thyroid issues as both run in my family. What I didnt expect to hear was it is premature menopause. I am 38! 
 My new gynie said my FSH is 47 and my estrogen is 15. And that those two levels together places me with premature menopause. She is going to retest me in 6 months to check levels again before we discuss treatments. Her other concern was my lipids are raised to high levels, which she also said goes along with premature menopause.
 Part of me doesnt believe her. I cant say I get normal periods but I still get them from time to time! Well since I was 35 my periods turned weird. I could go months without then I would get it and all would be fine. Then they started to skip more months and when I would get them they turned really heavy and lasted a long time. Last year I ended up having a D&C after 3 months of very heavy bleeding, and that was after not having a period for almost 9 months before that. When my old gynie did the D&C they also did a hysterscope and found I had a uterus full of fibroids. 
 The new gynie not only ordered blood work but also a sonogram (internal and external) to check everything and she said the fibroids are gone! Which she also said helps her to say its premature menopause. 
 What I dont understand is what it is. There isnt alot of information out there on it. How can it be menopause and I still get periods. I have all the symptoms of menopause, the nightsweats, facial hair that grew, weight gain even with diet and exercise, unrine leakage, etc etc.....even the new gynie thought it was thyroid so thats why I was tested for it, but my thyroid numbers all came back normal! She said she didnt expect it would come back premature menopause either. She ran a whole bunch of bloodwork because I was feeling so terrible, I am glad she did....but I am dumbfounded over this I guess. She thinks its been atleast 2 years and the whole D&C and fibroid episode last year is connected with the diagnosis. She said the body still tries with premature menopause, it just keeps failing. 
 I am more not understanding how I could go from pretty healthy to this in such a short time and in my 30's! No one in my family has ever gone through this other than because of a hysterecomy, never natural...or unnatural however you look at it. 
 I was trying to find sites and there are so few out there, one I found that is made for this but you have to pay to read the forums. Everything I find is related to menopause itself. 
 I am just so confused, it was shocking to me! Any help would be very appericated!! TIA!