It felt like only yesterday when I put my entire life and soul into my friends... my friends who were only a click away but were yet so out of reach. Although it didn't always help me completely, I poured out my emotions and depression to them, and received kindness and support in return. But now... the more I release my emotions to the ones who care about me so much that I can't comprehend... almost more than my real friends and family seem to, the more annoyed and frustrated they become. I release my most innermost sentiments and tell them how I feel about myself... I tell them how worthless and sad I feel, how horrible I feel I have become, and although I always say that I don't want support or forgiveness, I secretly do. And suddenly, insitead of treating me with the kindness and love they treated me with for the two years I've known them, they yelled at me. They insulted me. They were sick and tired of me and how I feel. They were ready to abandon me. I wa so confused and heartbroken... so suddenly, one of my only friends has decided to leave me? And so I stopped saying what I said. They apoligized for hurting my feelings... but I knew that they no longer saw me in the same way that they used to for so long. And this one person wasn't the only once. Based upon their tone and uses of words... I could tell that my friends didn't seem to care about me as much as they used to. They just said things like how it was irritating that I was so depressed and they told me to see a pcycatrist (spelled wrong) if I felt that bad. But... it's not that easy, to kick yourself and force yourself to talk to someone like that, especially if you've been dealing with this depression for so long. Even though they always say that they understand and that they're always there for me, and even though they STILL say that to me, I know that they don't think like that anymore. That place, where all of my friends are... that was my safe place, the one venting place I had and trusted and nowhere else. And now... my friends are slowly fading away, and I'm not keeping promises to them anymore. And whenever I express my emotions the situation just gets worse and I continue to feel alone, since they don't treat me the same way anymore. Now... I feel like I can barely release my emotions anymore among the people that I trust and know so well and love because they are slowly walkig away from me; one day they'll all abandon me. I'm no longer the kind, supportive, wise friend they have always known and loved, and the girl that prevented them from killing themselves or running away from their dreams? Me? That's not who I am anymore. They have told me so many times that I was their only friend and that I was the reason that they continued to life life at its fullest. But what can I say to them now, now that I've just become a lifeless shell myself? Also, I have continued to think about my love. He's no longer around, since he is so busy with school and a job; he has no time for foolish children such as myself. Even though I know he cares about me with all his heart, I cannot help but wonder if he truly loves me back. I mean, I admitted my love to him, and he gave me the option of whether (based upon what my family and I are comfortable with) I had wanted to continue to be friends or whether I wanted to take a step into a relationship with him; a platonic love. I told him that I would continue to be a friend until I told my parents what was going on and got their approval to take another step, even though I love him to pieces. Although I've told him many times that I cannot stop thinking about him and I've made it obvious that I love him very much I don't think he knows the true extent of my longing to be with him. I think about him every day and how much I want to be with him forever... how much it hurts, knowing that he is so far away, in age, wisdom, location.. et cetera. Even though he gave me options on what to do with our relationship, he has never told me how he feels about me. He never clearly said if he sees me as a friend or a love... how he truly feels inside. And I want him to love me back so much, but I know that he never saw me the same way I saw him, and it is destroying me, seam by seam, snapping every heartstring in my body. I feel like I clown compared to him; a fool, an idiot, a mere child getting over her head in this delusion called love. I can almost bet that he sees me as a child or a little sister he has to take care of. Even so he cares about me more than any of us can understand, he has always told me that he cannot cure me of my sadness, even though he wants to so much. And I always find myself naively refusing to accept that. He can cure me, and because of his understanding and his kindness, he has been. But... at the same time, the love I have for him is tearing me apart. I've been thinking about running away from home, traveling to many places on my own, running awayfrom what burdens me. I've even thought about running away to try to find my love. I've even had some dreams where my family dies and I end up living on my own, searching for my love to fill the void in my heart. I've even had a dream where my mom and my autistic brother died in a car crash and I was the only survivor. And my dad, in the hospital, told me that now, I was all he had. So how could I tell him that I was in love with a seventeen-year -old online? How could I tell him how I truly felt? How could I run away? How could I do the things I wanted without hurting him? And I feel like this to everyone; I just want to run away, but that would hurt them, too. I want to do drastic things to avoid hurting others more than I already have but I can't. Ever since I was a child, whenever I would release my emotions I would always hurt them. They would be pointing at me, crying, screaming, laughing. And I would cry myself, because hurting others... it hurts me, and with this weak shell of mine, I cannot handle being hurt. So I've become selfish, to avoid being hurt; to avoid hurting others. But I continue to say stupid things and I continue to hurt others. I feel like a monster who needs to be chained, who needs to be stabbed in the heart and pushed to the bottom of the ocean. I want to kill myself so much, for it would be the last heartbreak I would bring to anyone...
 I don't know what I want. Sympathy? Pity? Advice? Support? Sometimes I want all of these things, and sometimes I want to be ignored. Because of all the pain and frustration I've brought to people, this may be one of my last posts. I cannot rely on others to solve my problems for me. I'd rather die alone... but I'm scared. It hurts too much...