I'm in CA, my 57 year old brother lives in FL with our 91-year old father. Yesterday he called 911 from home and reported that he had been kidnapped and held hostage during a burglary of some sort of pharmaceutical supply house. He told a very elaborate story of nearly being killed as these people were setting him up to be the fall guy for their burglary. The police are quite sure that none of it happened and they phoned a sister who lives a couple of hours away and told her he was hallucinating and that my father couldn't continue to stay there. She went and picked up my father and took him home with her. I phoned my brother later and he sounded so convincing that I was inclined towards believing his story and was trying to make some investigations on his behalf, but things weren't working out too well so far. This morning my sister texted me asking if I was at my father's house in FL. She said my brother had called her in the middle of the night and told her my husband and I had flown in and were there now. I actually WOULD have flown there right away, but I'm very sick from cirrhosis and from drugs I'm taking to try to rid my body of the HepC virus. I'm 7 months into a 10 month treatment, and I was in bed when I heard I was supposedly in Florida.
 My brother has never had any mental dx of any kind, although he is an alcoholic. He stopped drinking about a year ago after a DUI that resulted in a short jail sentence. He truly did get off the alcohol for quite a while but we don't know if this might mean he's started again, or he's bipolar or schizophrenic, or maybe using some kind of drug we don't know about. He's never seemed to be into drugs before. Does this sound like schizophrenia? Does anyone have tips on how to convince him to see a psychiatrist? He reacted very badly to the police telling him he had hallucinated his experience, and we're afraid he will just get angry at the suggestion. One more thing: there is a family history of schizophrenia, with our aunt having been given that dx late in her life.