Before I say anything, I'm not sure why I writing, as I feel as though I have exhausted every possible option and nothing has helped me, but, maybe my writing, in some bizarre way, will help someone else. 
 Where do I begin? I am convinced I am dying, not from a mental disorder, but from a terminal disease, yet no doctor can diagnose me with anything. 
 I have completely lost the will to live, which probably happened well over three years ago. I have bouts of extreme sadness, and, ever so seldom, I will become manic, however, it should be noted that I barely have enough energy to get out of bed. I am crippled with chronic physical pain, among other things. 
 I have illusions in my vision, which is difficult to explain, but imagine yourself at night time walking the streets and looking at a mail box. To you it's just a mail box, but to me it's a person, or a flag, or something else entirely. That's just one example of what it's like, albeit a bad one, too, so hopefully you can understand what I mean. 
 I am paranoid all the time. My whole life feels like a bizarre marijuana induced panic attack, consisting of a rapid heart beat in situations that oughtn't be stressful, strange self defeating thoughts that are far more detailed and intricate than your standard "depression episode," weird sensations through out my body that sometimes come and go, including strange tastes on my tongue and scents through my nose. 
 I have trouble walking sometimes. Sometimes I shake, usually when I am especially sleep deprived. 
 I can never sleep, and when I do, I have the absolute worst nightmares. Extremely terrifying. 
 I feel completely disconnected from the person who I once was, which, when I knew him, was about 5 years ago. Now, when I look in the mirror, which takes an unusual amount of courage, I see a strange assembled skin that I can't identify. 
 I have become more and more eccentric, which hasn't necessarily been as much as my voluntary choice as it has been something else, something beyond me. A voice that can tear apart me and the world apart without a straw of remorse, and then cripple up in the fetal position and cry and beg for another day.