Hi All
 I knew my husband for 10 years before we got married and everything was perfect. he was my best friend my everything and was the sweetest person ever. Then things took a turn for the worse. After marriage i lived with his family and had no issue with it - his parents and siblings. I started to notice that his family were not very warm towards me and me being a little shy took time to open up with them too. My husband really wanted me to be just how i was in my own home, but dynamics were different. Misunderstandings took place which didnt help build the bond that i wanted. He is very much under the influence of what his parents and sisters say and he never stood up for me. Behind closed doors he was the guy i knew before marriage and then he would not be able to stand up for me in front of his family. It was always regarded as i was the one who was wrong and they were always right. He has dropped me twice to my parents without even telling me what they all had planned. the 1st time it shocked me and i went back after a week, when we were on our own when i got back he cried in my arms and said he would never let me go. But its happened again and this time it has taken its toll on me. They have made up lies or misudnerstood and are adamant i am a liar. So if 5 people have the same story clearly i am going to feel suffocated in that house. he keeps saying if i apologise and change and want the best for his family he will take me back. But he never has once said what unfair things his family or him have done to me, i have been through verbal abuse and bullying  by his siblings. He thinks they have treated me perfectly. He is now filing for divorce, i tried so many times if he would meet me but he has refused. What girl who was completely in love with her best friend would ruin her marriage and not apologise if i did something wrong. I have even said lets ask a 3rd party and see who is right. He has been brainwashed and refuses to believe me. I am devastated that it has come to this - his family are completely obssessed with him and i have come along and in order to have full control of him they are dictating what he should do. Why cant he realise what he is doing and will be sad for the rest of his life. They are separating 2 people who loved one another. what else can i do???