Nearly three weeks ago now, I noticed swollen nodes on my 19mo old son. I wasn't too concerned, as I have three older children and always check their glands when I think they are getting sick. Swollen nodes in themselves don't concern me. The time they had stayed swollen, however, sent up some red flags. As he was sitting on my lap, watching TV I was just rubbing his shoulder and noticed a swollen node. Then I found a few in his neck, and one on the back of his head, about an inch from the bottom of his hairline. The one on the back of his head is about 1cm and hard as a rock, unmovable. My nurse friends suggested I just get them checked, and at the time, I didn't realize the one in the collarbone area was any reason for alarm. 
 Over the last month, he has developed symptoms of lymphoma (or cat scratch since they are so similar in symptoms), including a 2lb weight loss in a month's time (he was 27 to begin with, dropped to 25), loss of appetite, an odd type of rash on his body, headaches, itchiness, and began digging at his belly button area saying "Belly hurt, belly hurt". The doctor did an exam, checked his nodes, and of course was alarmed at the L supraclavicular node and immediately checked his spleen, which she said was not swollen. She prescribed Augmentin, and sent him for a CBC and blood smear. I had mentioned a concern of lymphoma, and she said yes, the symptoms present, and it's a legitimate concern, then asked about cat scratch and said he would also be tested for that. Said if the nodes had not gone down at least by the end of the 10 day antibiotic run to bring him back. 
 She did call to tell me his blood work showed no cancer (though I am aware it is unlikely, especially in our small town, known for it's horrible medical history, that they would find the abnormal cells through a CBC). She did tell me his white count was high, showing infection, and the antibiotic should take care of that. Well, it is now 10 days later, his nodes have had no change, and rash is still present, mostly over his abdominal area, nothing like I've ever seen before.  
 We, of course, are still waiting on the bartonella results, and it is a possibility I think... (and HOPE)... but with these symptoms, should I be waiting it out, or should I be heading in for a second opinion? We don't have a cat, but back around Dec 22, we took in a stray for a few days. He spent about an hour with it, and the next morning, his eyes were half swelled shut, so we learned he was allergic... He did not get scratched that I'm aware of, however, I do know it can be transmitted through rubbing of eyes, which he did a lot of for a few days there. Now, symptoms didn't present until late in the second week in January, three weeks after the cat. From what the dr told us, it is a 1-2 week time frame for symptoms to show up. I definitely think the cat thing is possible, but should I be concerned about lymphoma? Should I be going for a second opinion, jumping the gun on the bartonella results? And if Bartonella comes back positive, should I take that for an answer, or could there be more to the story?