I am 24 (25 in a month) I did a Graphic Design Diploma the year after school. And for 5 years I have been having the worst trouble getting a job. I tried Graphic Design, but all the place are small, and said they wanted someone with a Degree. I had to give that up after a year, as my only earnings was a paper round. I tried anything after that. 2005 I worked collecting donations for a charity from 4pm to 8pm. Was depressing and stress with all the rude people, and the number of doors slammed in my face. During the day I searched at the library to net for jobs, applying for lots. The number of jobs I have applied for must be at least 1000. That lasted a year, when I had to give up, as the pay were getting less and less with falling donations. This is hard typing this. Since then I have had lot of interviews, but because of my lack of experience having got further than that. It's either experience your need, or to be minimum wage student. I've had endless disappointments as I've got my hopes up on a job and not gotten though. I've been stressed and depressed on and off. I had a job for a week, the owner disappeared, and paid me $5 per hour. I had a job for 3 days, had to leave as they couldn't afford to pay me. I did an Aged Care certificate, as a last resort (I thought.) The work experience, they didn't involve me enough, so I failed. I want to pay my parents back eventually. Had a two week trial for a Graphic Design job, was a miracle. Though I had the job, unfortunately the person teaching me didn't like me, and gave me a bad review to the boss.  You get the point.
 Now I am finishing a trial job at a gift shop with my mum. We want to buy one together as we both are unemployed. We love the place, and are very confident about getting it. Things seem to be looking up. If we buy it. I will have a job I like doing, to go, to fill my days. I will have more money, and will be able to stress less, as I will be able afford things. Takes a lot out of you, worrying about how to afford things. I will be able to do activities again. Meet friends, hopefully. These things cost, I feel like for 5 years I have missed out on so much. I have a great boyfriend who I will be moving in with. Its been a worry for some time that I would never be able to move in with him as I couldn't get a job.
 Things seem to be looking up. Life is getting better, a step at a time. Problem is, I have this devastation past which has scared me. Somehow, God has blessed me with a miracle every time my bank has got really low. Last time I got a thousand dollars tax return, as I worked for a month. I want to tell myself that I am a better person now, when something upsets me, everything comes back to me, and I feel like a failure, and get really upset. I want to be strong. Problem is, I don't know how to move on. My past is a part of me. And I need to leave it behind. Don't get me wrong, there have been good times, and great times. But how do I move on? How do I put it behind me? Do you think I will move on when I get more into the job, and things get better?
 If only I had had a job at school, though I wouldn't of experienced so much like living on my own in for a year, if I hadn't. Being to oldest, I didn't have anyone to learn from. If I could go back in time and get a job at school. I don't know if I would. It's been hard, but I have learned so much and it has made me a better person. I have a lot of positive outlook. But find it hard to keep it up sometimes. It's hard being your own positive support person.
 I feel embarrassed typing this, I don't want to make people feel sorry for me, cause I care about their feelings. But these feeling have been going on for too long.