Hi there..here is my story... Met a girl 2 yrs ago this past April. Friday nite date... ended up hanging out the whole weekend...Then it started.. She was there 7 days a week.. 5 to 10 phone calls a day...emails... blew in like a hurricane and stayed 2 yrs.. Over this period of time..I started noticing her crazy erratic mood swings.. hypersensitive.. couldnt spend a night alone.. Needed constant validation...overly emotional... If i mentiond a pimple on her nose she freaked.. if i yelled at my son to get out of the shower .. she told me she couldnt take the yelling.. we couldnt have a discussion or disagreement without her panicking and running out of the house and ending the relationship only to call days later apologizing. She started making me choose between her and my son who is 13.. that he was old enough to leave alone and I should come visit her. A year into the relationship she flippantly announced she had been diagnosed with panic/anxiety disorder but wasnt taking her meds, they were in the car glovebox because she was afraid of the side effects... Finally got her to counselling. She broke up with me a half dozen times in the last 3 months. Could never do enough. Wasnt loving enough.. wasnt romantic enough.. didnt kiss her enough and get this didnt hug her hard enough.. So after she ended it this past Mar I went to the same counsellor who said she believed she was bipolar instead.. online one night a guy told me to look up borderline personality disorder. and it was a light went off.. The reason i say that is her mother was panic/anxiety and used to run my girl to her moms sister in another city every couple months cause she couldnt cope.. when she hit 2 yrs old this woman said to my girls mom if you bring her again Im keeping her.. she did so she did.. so my girls aunt raised her as her own and untill she was 14 believed this family to be hers.. at 14 she was told that in fact they were aunt uncle and cousins.. To this day when my girl and her mother are in the same room her mother doesnt acknowledge her..She has been married twice.. 42 yrs old... and always said to me that im going to go find a guy to love me for me...I feel so beaten down... 1 year out... I never did enough... never met her needs.... never gave enough....Jumped from me to some other guy last March... would yell and scream and rage at me over insignificant things. Through me up against the wall one night... At the end it was all my fault in her words... So I still carry so much guilt and feel Im to blame... She tries to engage with my mother when she sees her as if nothing happened.. My mother walks right by. She has engaged me once or twice and told me to get over it. I feel abused...