I said BPD realization because i was diagnosed with BPD 7 years ago and just now realized it was true. I dismissed it as if it was just a temporary condition due to situational stress.. Also, I don't like to label myself, I feel like once i do that it has this negative connotation and that this disorder becomes an ingrained characteristic of my identity rather than an illness to be cured.
 I consider myself a high functioning BPD but I can no longer dismiss or make excuses for the chaos this condition has created in my life. 
 I think i've done pretty well with the symptoms of this disorder considering i've been dealing on my own for the past few years, I haven't been suicidal since 2002 "no therapy, no medication"
 The only symptom that i DON"T have however is self mutilation.. I have had many a jobs and many a man...and wasted so much money, made so many impulsive decsions that have burned so many bridges along the way.  
 I'm currently married my "6th" marriage, we just had a little boy in July my "6th" baby but he is the only baby i have at home and my husband and I are currently in marriage counseling to help us deal with some of the problems we have, I always wonder what kind of problems we have that is not BPD related, it is hard to distinguish at this point, but i know that not ALL the problems we have are caused by this. It is hard to focus on both sometimes tho and in addition being a new mommy again.. 
 I've also been diagnosed with hashimotos thyroiditis and it has caused me to need thyroid replacement drugs for the rest of my life due to an underactive thyroid gland, this disease is under-recognized and plays havoc on your over-all quality of life, it also intensifies mental and physical health issues when your blood levels aren't optimal "which mine aren't" so i'm also struggling with that. 
 I just wanted to introduce myself here and say hi and that i'm going to be learning a lot about this and how to function even better with it "just like i've done with my hashimoto's" and hopefully receive and give support to others..