I was in an emotional and verbally abusive relationship and even though we are broken up there is a part of me that still loves him. I me myt ex a year ago he was in the Army when he came home he was so sweet and made me feel so loved and would always tell me how much he loved me and how I was his first true love.Then he convinced me to move to a small town in KS were he is from and I left my apartment and good job to move with him and we were fine in the begining he was sweet but the longer we were here he became mean and very critical of me. He barely showed me any love or affection and would say some pretty mean things to me and when I would say something to him he would say Im feeling sorry for myself. I then found out he was on an adult website talking to girls and that really hurt. He never apologized to me he said it was my fault becuase he wasnt getting attention at home. I tried to move past it but I didnt trust him and the abuse got worse one minute he was sweet then the next mean. I was also pretty sure he was cheating on me he denied it but the signs were there. He had me so depressed and feeling unloved. Then around Thanksgiving I got very ill and he actually was very sweet and took care of , made me the Thanksgiving dinner I never got to eat and etc. But then out of nowhere he was distant and showed me no emotion at all...I called him on it and out of the blue he wasnt sure he wanted to be in the relationship and it hurt. For a few days he said it was tearing him apart while he thought about things and then he ended it. After that his ex wife called me and told me how he did the same to her . He verbally and emotionally abused her as well as physically not to mention cheated multiple times on her so much she tried to kill herself. I also found out he lied about a lot of things like why he had to pay off her credit cards becuase he ran them up etc..right now his family has stoped talking to him and he has lost his best friend and others due to his anger and the way he treats people.  Im in the process of moving out thank god for my family they are moving me back home and will help me get a plac once i find a job.  He says this was the hardest decsion ever and that he is hurting and loves me but we argue to much...we didint start arguing tell he treated me badly.Im sure there is someone else. He blames everything on his ptsd I know that is real and can be hard but I feel he is useing it as an excuse to treat people badly. I know that i should be glad its over but i still love him and he seems to handle the break up better even though he says he is hurting. I feel cheated he told me he wanted kids now im single and 35 and starting over. When does the pain stop ??