my mom(62 yrs) has schizophrenia illness, she talks to herself often, arranges things very frequently in the house e.g.- keeping spoons, plates, cushions, shampoos, empty containers in certain order or re-arranging all of the above time to time. When asked to stop doing it she tells me that if she doesn't do it then their could be problems. Apart from this she talks about marrying guys who're less than half her age, sometimes imaginary characters or sometimes a neighbor's son.Mom is divorced since 12yrs. and lives alone - I visit her once every year for 3months. She had this problem since almost 10yrs now, (was never taken to a pschyiatrist), but last 6months her probs have escalated quite a bit-- she keeps the phone disconnected does not communicate with anyone, thinks Im going to harm her, stays in very dim light, I managed to force & take her to a psychiatrist, she was prescribed - olanzapine(olimelt in India) 10mg at bedtime & sizodon plus (morning & bedtime 1 each time) - mom refuses to take these drugs as she thinks she's perfectly alright. Upon Doctor's advice im now giving her Olimelt 10mg at bedtime mixed in her food without her knowledge. I see a 2 % improvement in her - its been 4 days that im giving her. My questions are - how effective will this drug be if taken everyday once at bedtime & for how long should it be given?, i have already googled side effects on this drug- so will not need that info. Also most important - how can I convince her that she has a mental illness - without losing her trust in me? Can I print some basic information about Schizophernia from internet and leave it casually at her bedside, so she can read it & maybe relate to it & understand that their is a problem with her mental health.?? I have 2 more months of stay with her & once again she will be living alone, as I work in a different city. I would definitely want her to take her medication by herself when Im not there, but for that she needs to have an insight about her illness. Please help & any advice in this matter from anyone experienced will definitely be appreciated. Thanks in advance.