A friend with BPD has cut me off after I introduced her to my fiancee. I care about this woman but she unfriended me on Facebook and has not answered texts or emails for a year now. What started all this was I introduced them about 18 months ago. My friend with BPD had been my lover but that was four years ago. I've been with my fiancee for 3 years. I originally wanted to maintain contact but under my terms. I only tried to contact her twice in the last year. An e-mail at her birthday and a friend request recently.  When the two women were introduced something rather unexpected happened. My friend told my fiancee (when they were alone together) that I was a "creepy old man that liked younger women" and that she could do better "than me"!  This obviously disturbed both of us. And it does have a crumb of truth. Both of these women are mature 40 to 45 y/o. Attraciive women. I am 60. But they both say I look 45, even waitrenses think I'm much younger. Besides these are mature women and why would either date me or marry if I was "creepy"? Needless to say I was pissed off big time when I found this out. I let her know in no uncertain terms that I didn't appreciate her obvious attempt to run my fiancee off. I stopped talking to her altogether. However we stayed friends on Facebook for another 6 months. Then she unfriended me after I posted a picture of my fiancee from.a bayside restaurant last summer. Ok...so your probably wondering am I "crazy" for even giving her a thought? I ask this of myself also. Well 6 years ago I was married to another woman when I met my friend at work. We are both nurses. Actually she is out of nursing now. I fell in love with her almost immediately then. Of course it was a total mess and lead to nothing. Other than my divorce. And that's why it sticks with me. I've never been happier in my life than now. I miss my fiancee when I don't get to see her for 12 hours.  So in my warped mind I see my friend as the catalyst for my ultimate happinoss. I would never have met my future wife without meeting my friend first! 
So I am torn. Should I try to contact her directly or just give it up entirely? I like to think I am a forgiving person. What do you think?