Is it helpful to believe we can get better?
  I feel like I have lived 2 lives.  A lot of my life--mostly the younger part of it--was spent in school.  These were years marked by a lot of hard work, discipline, industriousness, energy and creativity.  I liked who I was and had ambition, vision, hope, confidence and self esteem.  Only struggled with depression a little here and there during these years and in this environment.
 After college, I began working for 3 years in accounting and then sales and was introduced to the different kind of stress working for a living involves.  Struggled here and there.
 Graduate school was a respite as the environment, even though very competitive and grueling, fit me well.
 After a couple more years of work, the stress and pressure just seemed too much.  A few jobs later and now with a family and kids to take care of, it seems like my tolerance for stress and the anxiety and depression just isn't enough.  I simply shut down and want to sleep most of the time (and too often this is what I do).
 I've tried a fairly long list of things to improve the way I feel or at least behave.  I won't detail them all here, but they include counseling/therapy, a variety of medication, reading, and taking a course on recovering from depression.  I'd have thought something would have stuck by now, but alas no.
 I try to write and use affirmations as a way to determine how I want to think.  I wrote it this morning as a reflection of how I wanted to feel and it helped for a short while.  But I can't seem to shake the anxiety and despair.  A lot of it tied to my seeming inability to perform very long in a job at even an acceptable level, let alone the way I believe I used to.
 And so I'm wondering, should I keep trying to get better, be better, do better?  (leaving behind the feelings for now).  Or should I accept that depression is a real illness and accept this new level of sub-mediocrity, tiredness, lethargy, lack of energy and focus?  Where is the line between these two peaks?  How do you balance it?  How to maintain belief that things can be better (and life worth living) while not setting myself up for defeat and frustration?  Should I give up ambition?  The hope that we can be better than today?  I don't want to give up on believing and thinking positively, but am I torturing myself with a mirage?
      A single positive thought in the morning (or any time) can change the direction of my day.  It may be by a degree or two or it may be more significant.  But this is how I can change life.
 Life is what we make it.  I can do everything better with positive thinking than negative thinking.  Life is 10% what happens to us and 90% how we respond to it.  We can alter our lives by altering our attitudes.  Life really is experienced through perception and we can alter our perceptions by deciding to modify unrealistic expectations, by choosing to look on the positive side, by explicitly reminding ourselves of all we have to be grateful for—family, health, a home, friends, etc.
 My attitude every day, but especially this day, is that I am not a static quantity.  We are swirling complex masses of chemicals, thoughts, feelings and actions, constantly in motion, doing, becoming, changing into something new.  All of the things I've accomplished and feel good about in life were not just the result of a formula followed by some different person in a different environment, but the result of a constantly active stretching and tweaking and adjusting in different ways and directions to be and do what I wanted and had pre-determined was important.  
 It wasn't perfect then and it doesn't need to be now.  If we realize there was never anything perfect and that we are always changing, then letting go of perceived losses or failures (there is really no such thing as failure - conviction, not guilt, never shame) becomes easy.  The closest thing to the sublime we have is casting aside fear as a spent force and taking the next step with enthusiasm and belief in ourselves.  Part of this is keeping stress at a productive and manageable level that doesn't cause us to shut down.  I also know that whatever eternal good there may be in the universe works in our favor.
 I believe in myself and that happiness, or joy, is the natural byproduct working toward something I care about and showing love and kindness to people with everything I've got.  And this is how good lives are made – the accumulation of a bunch of thoughts and efforts continuously course-corrected by choice of the will.  However else I might be feeling or thinking, this moment, I make the decision to launch back out into the possible, working, thinking, hoping and believing in the best.