My wife and I have 2 children 3 and 6. I was laid off about 13 months ago which was a blessing in disguise because I get to spend my days raising my children and being the house dad. My wife also was blessed because she was able to open up her own beauty business. We agreed that i would stay home with the kids for at least a year while she got her business up and running. Sounds good on paper but things have changed for both of us. Before her business we were fine and had a healthy sex life while balancing out everything else in life. Bills, time with kids, family etc. Life seemed good and we were both so happy that her business was growing and I was doing really well with being the house dad while she made the money. I am also getting unemployment as well to assist with bills. I well 8 months down the road since the business was opened i noticed that there was no sex life "going on 2 months now" she told me that she is not connected to me and dreads coming home do to the stress of not being able to talk about anything with me. The problem is that she is so stressed with her business which in her head run 24/7 that she has become a robot!!! I on the other hand talk about the kids and how the day has gone. I do the chores, cooking, cleaning, baths for the kids tuck them in ya know the normal things parents do. I really have become the single parent because she is gone all the time to marketing events and socials. She told me that that she now feels empowered  and very confident with being a business owner nothing like she has ever felt before and she is loving it. the problem is that she is the only one running her business and she is not establishing any sort of balance with her personal responsibilities with me and the kids. She even has told me that we both are going different directions and she wants to so this on her own and with the kids since she lost the connection with me. I told her that I also lost the connection with her because at the beginning she was nurturing, fun, not as uptight and just down right sexy and everything I wanted in a woman. My friends often ask " how did you end up with such a hottie" lol. Well lastnight I discussed with her what she wanted and felt, She gives me the whole i hate how i feel but i can't help it answer, but then she will cry and ask me to hold her hand. and we kiss but only for about 3 seconds or so. i even tried to be intimate with her but it feels so starnge to even go there for both of us since it seems so "staged" she still will text me in the middle of the day and say I love you or xoxoxox0 so i know she is missing me. I respond by texting xoxoxox thinking of you. I told her that if she feels so bas then we should seperate after the kids go back to school and just go from there. I need to find a job and settle before leaving. she seemed to agree but never really could utter the words separation or divorce. I am still listening to her and I am not pressuring her with this whole stressful sad situation. I told her that i am in this for the rest ofmy life and she is the woman for me. You cannot feel like butterflies and the first date 5 years later in the relationship and the marriage requires hard work and sacrifice. I told her that I do have needs and it takes two tomake stuff happen and work. I could have been one of those people who cheated but I did not even though i was too also very lonely inside. I just do not know what else to do about this anymore. We are just taking it day by day and i think she might even come around to woring on the marriage but she has not stated so. All opionions welcome!! She said happiness for her is independace since she has always felt like a failure in her family and finally has this little business going for her which maked her feel like she is on a hogh that she cant come down from. But this is wrecking her relationship with me and the kids. MY version of happiness is to enjoy life and not micro manage evreything and be with a woman who wants the same and lights my fire!!