When my son was around 6 years old  he was sexually abused my another little girl who attended the same home day care my boys attended.   He tryed to tell me and his father. His dad started freaking out and I did not catch on to what he was trying to us. He got scared and never mentioned it again until about 3 months ago. I had to have him hospitalized due to the fact he was wanting to hurt him self. My boys father and I divorced and it was very ugly. When my son was 9 we rented a large older home. I had one room mate he was a male but a close family friend. A friend I knew boy friend beat her up very badly, it was not the first time. So I asked her if her and her 10 year old daughter would like to move in. I did tell her that she could have no contact with this man and had to get a job, and help buy food.  She and I both received food stamps. To make a long story short she was a night mare. Her daughter was mean and lied and was stealing all the time. I went to the landlords to have her evicted since she would not leave. According to the law I would have to evict her and that could take months. So I got us out of our lease and moved back to where I had grown up. I ended getting engaged to the man who my husband had a affair with his fiancé . He caught my husband and her in the woods having sex the night before they were to get married. I had been a chachter witness during a custody battle they had over there daughter.any ways during one of the times he had her, we all lived together my boys his daughter. He drove truck and was gone quite a bit. When it was time for his daughter to go be with her mother we returned her on time no problems. Several days later the girls mother called and accused my 9 year old son of molesting her daughter. I called my boys father since he had a relationship with. They where just friends at this point but he would not help his son. My fiancé and I broke up so he would not lose custody of her. Iwe asked my son about the situation , he denied  doing anything. We believed him it was a very well thought out plan to break us up and it did. I did believe my son. Yet choose to take him to see a counselor who works with these types of problems. Right before they called us back my son tells me the girl who lived with us before we moved had molested him. So we told the counselor everything. She saw my son for awhile. She told me my soon did not ever touch my ex fiancé daughter . But had been molested by the 10 year old little girl.. I never pushed my son to talk about like the counselor told me to do. But after he graduated school he just sort of fell apart. He is in therapy now. But how could have been abused twice and I not see it. I was a mandated reporter, I worked kids for a living? How common is this. I fell so guilty . I should have protected my child . But I never saw any red flags.