Hello
I am trying to determine why my Cortisol levels have been high for what seem to be my whole life.
I gain weight quickly, am constantly tired, have suffered from brain fog for at least 30 years, no sex drive, excessive estrogen and allot of chest fat and many other symptoms associated with high cortisol levels. Also being unable to sleep, stress builds up quickly etc. I have been diagnosed as having excessively high cortisol.
 Because this has been the case my whole life, as far back as I can remember, I am trying now to determine why this may be the case.  Most people think I'm a health nut because I don't drink, I rarely drink coffee, I eat healthy food and cook at home. I also excercise but I have hacked at it my whole life.  Life is just getting too hard which adds to the depression as I can't imagine living like this for too much longer.  Everything is a struggle when you feel constant anxiety and stress.  It's not just a passing symptom, I'm not dehydrated or unrested. The unrest comes from not being able to.   Even when exercising, cardio is always a real hack despite doing ridiculous quantities of exercise in the past. I must be very tough to get this far without giving up.   Weight training makes me very nervy and I start to gain excessive quantities of weight around my waist and chest.  It's quiet unprecedented.  
 When I see how others around me eat and live I think I'm holding some bad cards.  The rubbish people around me eat and the amount of alcohol they consume means that they should be where I am.  Instead they are rewarded with calmness of mind and plenty of energy to carry them through life.   I really isn't fair. It's an age old story. 
 I'm trying to determine just why I tip into this high cortisol situation so easily.  There must be a reason.. Yes I know what cushings disease is.  It might be that.  But there must be other reasons.  
 Have there been any major discoveries in this area.  I'm trying to discover what I don't know.  
 I think I found a solution once.  It involved exercising a few times a week, eating very tiny meals, not eating past 7pm and leaving out simple carbs from my diet.  Also no coffee or alcohol.  I seemed to come good very quickly, I lost tons of weight, started to sleep well, felt light on my feet.  It was my body recovering from all that stress.  The tiny meals is very tough but it worked.    
Unfortunately before long I just slips back into high cortisol world again.  The anxiety returns despite doing all the things I just described.  This method seems to have become less effective.  I think I have something triggering this which is what I am trying to find out.
 If anyone can suggest where to head with this it would be truly appreciated. 
 Thanks.