My husband and I are newly married and both of us are poor college students.  My husband is getting ready for four more years of pharmecy school so children were far off in the future for us.  But I had a missed period and for weeks after we hoped and prayed I wasnt pregnant and I was just simply late.  But after weeks and weeks of pregnancy symptoms and no period we couldn't hide from the truth any longer and I took a pregnancy test, it was positive.  I felt completly lost.  Part of me still wished I wasnt pregnant, having no idea what we would do and how we would afford it and give it what it needed.  But the other part of me could not help being over joyed and I fell absolutly in love with the baby.  I could see the affects it was having on us already.  My husband was talking about giving up pharmecy school, I was talking about dropping out of school so he could continue, ect.  But I still continued to have split feelings and I couldnt help either.  I loved the baby but wished we were financially and emotionally ready to have her.
 a few weeks later I started to bleed heavily and there was nothing we could do, I had lost the baby.  I stayed in bed for a week and refused to get up except to use the bathroom.  Once again I had a million emotions changing every five seconds.  Part of me was relieved, and then I felt guilt and hated myself for feeling any type of relief, and then of course the rest of me felt nothing but intense grief at the baby I lost and that I felt I hadnt appreciated enough while I was lucky enough to have her.  Its been two weeks since and though I am up out of bed and doing what I should I cant shake the grief and hurt at the loss of her.
 I also feel completly alone and slightly betrayed by my husband.  He cant understand why I am taking it so hard, he couldnt be more relieved.  The whole time I was in bed he didnt once try to comfort me and I actually started wondering at my choice of men.  but I can see a little of where he is coming from.  He didnt carry the baby in his body, his career plans would have been stopped or put on hold, and we just werent ready and its not as if I werent guilty as well.  but all this just makes me feel more alone.
 I attend a college where everyone is pregant or has children and I get so angry and jealous sometimes I dont even want to leave the house.  It makes it harder because I can't just simply go and try for another baby.  I have to wait possibly years to try for a baby and it makes it all the worse.
 My husband says God took our baby back because he knew we werent ready yet for the little thing and that when we are ready he'll give us another chance at her.  But part of me feels god is punishing me for not appreciating her as much as I should have.  I guess theres true saying in "be careful what you wish for."
 Is everything I am feeling normal?  Ive read about woman grieving after a planned pregancy and then having a miscarriage, but what about grieving after a misciarrage of an unwanted pregnancy?