here goes, not sure where to start. ive been feelin emptyiness for many years searching for the feelin of happiness although i have everything , 2 lovely kids and a wonderful partner.  For the past 6 years i became more aware of my behaviour, every week  or  every other day there seems to be a major issue with me this resulting in me pushing my partner away, trying to end things to try to put a stop to these crazy thoughts, ive said so many hurtful things to push him away, which i don`t  really mean but i feel that i cant control my thoughts when im a this state. Think steve has learned to let them go over his head but after i feel so ashamed of this. Mainly my day starts off with waking and have so many thoughts that i feel paralized with worrry and feel sick to the stomach,( this is before im out of bed) i constantly worry about being betrayed eg:if he doesnt text, if any plans change, i also worry about other woman he may speak to at work, if names are mentioned i start imagining things and they wont go out of my mind could be for weeks. I just cant make words sink into my brain and feel what thay actually mean, when steve says i love you so much i can feel for that moment then my head will start racing with thoughts as though my head as just dismissed them. My partner is so not what my head see`s and im so fed up of fighting with my head. People see me as a bubbly happy person and i see things differently to other people, when i tel steve about things i feel he will say " where did that come from" i see things just through my eyes. Went to see my doctor again as i know this is not normal to be like this so he feferred me to see a physciatrists(sorry about spelling) but was turned down because i said i had a couple of glasses of wine each night so my anti depressants would not be working fully,, as you can imagine i hit rock bottom with no help and no one who really knows what im feelin or talking about.  I have been researching and reading now about my symptoms and felt so eleated to read about bpn symptoms its as if they were describing me. if there is anyone out there can help me as what to do next as i can`t take much more of living like this