Hi all! I’ve been going through a struggle during a relationship with a depressed boyfriend, then I've had trouble dealing with the breakup of that relationship and that leads me to where I am now. Four months post break up, still crying every day, and wanting to message him all the time. Sometimes I do and he'll sometimes talk to me for a bit but ultimately it ends the same and he tells me to leave him alone. Over the recent months I've noticed myself change. As I said, I cry all the time, cry myself to sleep, cry in the night, cry as soon as I wake up, cry at work. I've started to just want to be left alone by everyone because when I'm with people I'm just thinking about my ex all the time. If people let me I would happily talk about it for hours on end. I go over and over every part of our relationship – the breakup and the horrible things he's said to me since. I am shattered all of the time, I've started to eat loads which is so not like me as normally when I'm sad my appetite goes completely. I've tried to help myself, I've joined a new exercise group; started a language class; booked a few mini breaks;  bought new clothes etc but I'm still sad. I can't concentrate and every day is just a battle with myself not to message him. A month ago I started seeing a counselor twice a week and also have started taking an anti depressant called citalopram. Neither seem to be helping, I like talking to the counselor but I'm not finding out anything I didn't already know about myself or what I can do to help myself. The medication is also having a negative effect I think. I started on a small dosage (10mg per day) and immediately noticed bad side effects. If I take it in the morning I am shattered in the day. If I take it at night I am shattered in the morning. And i mean shattered to the point where I'm doing a constant yawn and my head is falling down at my desk at work. I also feel really nauseous for the first few hours of the day. I also don't feel any different mood wise, worse in fact as the tiredness is making me miserable. I'm at my wits end. I know it's normal to grieve after a relationship but it's not easing up at all. I miss talking to him, I hate thinking he's moved on, I hate it that he doesn't mean the things he said to me, I hate it that I'm missing out on his life. What can I do to make this easier? I can’t live like this anymore!