Hi, I'm 16, and I was seeing this guy in 2012 for only 6 months. We've talked about many things , I felt I started to care for him and develop feelings as well. One of the things we talked about was sex , & we were both curious but I didn't want to initiate any action until I was ready. He said he was fine with that . But I realized he was becoming overly curious. Touching my legs , and always wanting to kiss me even in public. I didn't make much of this. It wasn't until one day he decided to test the limits of his curiosity. I asked him to take me to get icecream. I told my parents I would go straight home after that. After we got icecream we sat in the car, he pulled out his wallet and showed me a condom. We had talked about being prepared if necessary but I didn't/ wasn't in the mood to do anything anyway. 
 He continued saying that "we better use it soon then" he laughed an I thought it he was just joking. We pulled out of the parking lot & he turned into a park. And Parked there. I asked him why he stopped here for I was supposed to go home. He claimed he wanted to show me something in the backseat. I had a bad feeling , but in my heart I thought I should trust him more. He started kissing me and climbing ontop of me, I quickly questioned what he was doing . He ignored me. He starting rubbing me , & pushing me down. I told him no, but he wouldn't stop. I was tired that day from a match I played the day before. I wanted to fight him but I held off . He pulled off my shorts and pulled off my underwear. I sat up and told him to stop and that we shouldn't be doing this. I asked him to grab my clothes but instead he pushed me back down & kissed me again. He fingered me, it hurt. Then he went down on me & had oral sex on me. I told me to stop so many times. I began to cry. He ignored my cry then grabbed the condom & put it on. I was scared , scared of many things. I was exhausted & I felt him put it in. It was extremely painful. I told him to take it out. Again he ignored me. I gave up. 
 After that, he drove me home. I was silent, & I began crying again. He parked away from my house. He tried talking to me about it. He said he would listen to me more.. I said I forgave him. But it's been months and I've been questioning what this is. I felt guilty and tried forgetting about it all this time. I didn't wanna tell anyone. Please help me..