I've been reading over this website with great interest and i have found some comfort in knowing that there are others with similar concerns as i have and many encouraging responses to hopeful out comes and ways of finding proper treatment. I would love to hear any sort of ideas relating to things that have been happening with me.  
Over the past 5 years or so i have been suffering from mental issues that were very hard to come to terms with as they became harder and harder to ignore. I have had a history of  some frequent drug use that had minimal effect on me from the age of 16-20. When i got to 20 i started to feel uncomfortable in crowded social situations. I was paranoid people were watching me and judging me negatively. Soon i couldnt stop thinking this was real and then i started to think they were talking about me.  Soon this occupyed the majority of my concentration even in more quiet social situations with my good friends. Like people who i couldnt see, like neighbours etc were judging me and talking about me etc etc.. I found it difficult to concentrate on anything else and became very anxious to the point where i would not want to go out much and would prefer to spend my time alone, where even then i felt like people were passing judgment about me.  I went without treatment for 2 years and devoted all my mental energy into fighting what i refused to accept as out of my control. I learnt in time to separate what seemed like reality into part of my imagination and although i found it hard to stop the fear of being watched, i managed to learn how to control what the voices said and then began to accept that it was definately not real and only part of my imagination which helped me push it aside and function quite well.. I got help eventually cos it still worried me greatly. I was diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder and was treated with seroquel and fluoxitine which did not help much, then was put on ziprezadone and sertaline by a second doctor who said i had schzophrenia. The new meds didnt help much either .which still did not help. I was no longer hearing voices but imagining them still. i tried abilify after that from a third doctor who said i defaintely didnt have schzophrenia, but rather a mood disorder with  schzo tendancies that came out from taking drugs. I still couldnt stop the thoughts of being judged, imaginging people talking about me and often i wold engage in conversations with them in my head and argue with them but i knew that it definately wasnt real.  I went off the meds because i got severe akathesia from them and ive been off them since. i still imagine people talking about me, but now its mainly when i drift off into day dreams.  I can concentrate when i need to, but i am extremely self conscious in public and awkward with my movements because i feel like im a constantly under scrutiny for my every move.  I feel tense all the time and when people come close to me i get all tense like a knee jerk reaction that i have no control over. I find it very hard sometimes to do tasks that are simple just because im soo nervous.. Im not on any medication at the moment and i dont know what the hell condition i have and what i should do..Ive stopped seeing my psychoanalyst now - do you think i should go back?