I was left with no choice but to complain about a group of surly medical personnel at my Cardiac Surgeon Doctor's office. Well, I MUST/NEED to undergo an Echo-Stress test because I desperately need Brain surgery for Trigeminal  Neuralgia, a neuropathic disease. Once...AGAIN! On the day of the Echo-Stress exam I  faced retaliation and was 'ganged' up by 3 female workers. I asked the gal to close the privacy curtain several times, and it was never done. The testing area is for both genders. The head-charge nurse of the office was called into my testing room from several doors away and they 'appeared' to have that knocking around, ganging up of me all planned out due to my previous fax message to the MD.  
 She yelled at me "do you want to take this test or not?" Well.. I MUST have that test, or no surgery since I've already had two (2) heart attacks. 
 I fell frozen and very silent and suddenly remembered the un-wanted sexual abuse I endured one hot summer as an adolescent from an family member. It's that same rotten gut feeling, like biting into an apple with a worm inside. My breasts were wide open on that table just like in my bed that morning when I was 12 years old. I froze up! OMG, not only did I endure un-provoked sexual advances from the most cherished male of my family, but my breasts were intentionally left wide open again for the whole world to view me in that vulnerable position AGAIN! I KEPT COVERING MY BREASTS UP and they kept pulling the gown OFF of my breasts! To make matters worst, the younger gal was told to 'take charge' of me and she sand-papered the hell out of my skin. I told them sand-papering was unnecessary ( I have dry-dry skin, and allergic to adhesives) and she took delight in doing it even harder! I still feel the shock of that morning from both experiences, and depressed feelings are haunting me all over & once again. This new experience is just as bad as that summer morning, and even worst, because I kept saying NO< NO< NO! 
I can't sleep, I'm in worst pain, and  feel as denigrated all over again by my own gender. I also think the charge nurse is a drunk as well as a lesbian. Where do I begin? The last time I complained via FAX to the MD about the surly mentality,  I met this fierce gang of females taking what should be a simple echo-stress test. They also insisted that I leave my purse outside of the testing room which was totally unnecessary as there are hooks on the wall for clothes & purses. I know that if given the chance my purse including all of my IDs would get passed around & ripped off by at least one of them. It's just the attitude in the AIR that one gets, you know the types, those gang mentality's exist in every office setting, and lately more prominent in medical settings. Who should I write to now? The hospital will protect the workers, not the patients, I do not want to sue them, I want a formal apology and they should collectively all lose their jobs. Who should I make an appointment with at the center? The administration, or the doctor again, or should I make a statement to the police department. I had been violated in a doctor's office and this wasn't the first time. It happened the first time I ever saw a gynecologists at 18 years old. The doctor began to talk 'dirty' to me and I quickly left to never return. As females, we must protect ourselves from  men, now we have to protect ourselves from lesbian drunks at our doctors office too at every turn?  Any suggestions would surely help this overwhelming depressed feelings that linger in my loving home.