I have a great marriage and we rarely argue except when it comes my 18yr old stepdaughter. She has been spoiled by her mother who does all for her and expects nothing. If she disrespects or otherwise offends me, my wife openly supports her no matter how wrong she is. I am a good/supportive stepfather. I love my daughter and want what’s best for her. She truly can be sweet and I am very proud of her. I supported her in school/interests 100%. In 6 months she’s off to college and living independently. I’m gravely concerned because she has not been prepared. She is totally irresponsible. She doesn’t understand the basics of living. She wants others do all for her. she learned that all her feelings, no matter how misguided or inappropriate, are ok with 100% sympathy from her mom. My wife understands this but does nothing. My attempts to teach/guide often offend my daughter and no matter what I say, my wife defends her with excuses and sympathy for her emotions. Recently, when she freaked after I told her something she needs to do regarding a health concern, my wife quickly/angrily jumped to her defense again. My wife later said that I was just making problems, and that I just don’t want to help our daughter anymore. Wow! After all I’ve done and the genuine love and concern I have for my stepdaughter. This time I had had enough. Everything is fine so long as I help our daughter when she thinks she needs help, expect nothing from her, and be sympathetic to her emotions. I feel as if I cannot continue to care for and guide her if my support is rewarded with contempt and disrespect however this too is not an option without damaging my marriage. If nothing is done then surely my daughter will live in crisis, learning through failure, and it will be me to shoulder the burden of bailing her out and fixing her messes. I’ve tried a 1000 times to reason with my wife on this however when it comes to her daughter, she becomes emotional herself and defends her at all cost. I really think that my wife, despite an otherwise loving/solid marriage, would rather lose me then ever seriously demand change in her daughter.
Please believe me this is not a tact issue or an issue with my approach.
What can I do? Thanks!