I'm 26 years old, will be 27 in November. (From the UK)
 I've always had a regular, no drama-filled period, apart from the fact it's very heavy and I'm always low in iron. I had hormone checks a few years ago (can't remember why exactly) and the doctor told me my FSH levels were high for my age and nothing really happened about it. 
 Fast forward to about 5 weeks ago now, my period was several weeks late and I was in so much pain so went to the doctor, I wasn't pregnant but the doctor told me I need to have an ultrasound scan to check my woman-y areas for any issues, but my appointment wasn't until last week (4 weeks later) and she also sent me off to have  blood tests (specifically my hormones) and that I'll have a phone appointment with her after my scan and scan results come through to discuss anything. So I had said appointment 2 days ago and it wasn't good. The scan showed a small cyst on my left ovary, my thyroid levels aren't right, I'm low in iron, and more importantly, my ovary levels aren't right at all and she very matter-of-factly said "I don't want to say you're going into early menopause but it looks like that's what's happening, your ovaries are failing.." and said she needs to refer me to specialists. My period has returned though.
 She didn't say much else as it's not her area I assume, she's just a more general doctor (GP), but I'm obviously concerned.
 So I take it once your ovaries start to fail, that's it? Is there any way for them to go back to normal? 
 I am low in weight, but I've always been, I was born tiny (I weighed a bag of sugar) and have small bones and not much fat on me, but up until this year my period has never been affected by it, and I started my period at a normal age - 13. I'm saying this as I know low weight can contribute to fertility problems... I would've thought my body would've adjusted to it though? I've even put on a few pounds since last year.
 If I did (somehow) put on weight, would that help my oestrogen levels? (the hormone you need for your ovaries to function properly, oestrogen struggles to distribute around the bodies of women with low weight)