I am absolutely DESPERATE for help! My brother refuses to talk to ANYONE who could help him, and he is losing trust even in me--his sister--and the rest of our family. I know this is long, but PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE keep reading it.
 Val was never officially diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic, but I am absolutely certain that this is the problem. For three years I have watched his mind deteriorate, and we tried to get him help early on. The longest he was in therapy was for about 4 months, probably 8 sessions in all, but he stopped going. He said the sessions were mostly just pointless chatter, and he didn't see how that was possibly supposed to help. The woman he talked to was hesitant to diagnose him (as should have been, if she suspected schizophrenia--that's a weighty sentence to put on someone). But Val stopped going before she had the chance to get a complete picture of his illness, and so she never gave a diagnosis. Since then he has never gone back, and he says he never will, no matter how often we suggest it.
 He told us that he is absolutely, without a doubt, 100% convinced that "they" have erased some of his memories without his consent. When I asked Val who "they" are, he didn't give me a clear answer: he said maybe the U.S. government, the President, the CIA, or the FBI, or maybe all of those combined. He believes that EVERY SINGLE PERSON EXCEPT HIM is working for, or with, "them," including me, our mom, and our other brother. Yesterday he was freaking out, yelling at the top of his lungs, demanding us to tell him what we know about "them." He thinks that even we are keeping the huge secret from him, and he is getting desperate for answers. When we tell him we don't know anything, he angrily calls us liars and actors.
 I called an emergency crisis hotline when he was flipping out yesterday, and they wanted to send someone to our house to do a mental health evaluation on him. But Val said that if anyone showed up, he would lock himself in his room and that he would not speak to anyone. Again, he thinks that all mental health professionals are working for "them" and that therapists are trying to stop him from discovering the conspiracy against him.
 I am so lost, depressed, and afraid. It hurts me that Val has gotten so bad that he doesn't trust us anymore. It breaks my heart to say that I am absolutely terrified of him and of what he may do to us. I no longer trust Val. Today he has been remarkably calm, but how long until he becomes furious again? How long until he demands answers that we can't possibly give? How long until he threatens us or attacks us?
 He won't go talk to anyone. He refuses the possibility of medication. He says he'll ignore anyone who comes to the house to try and reason with him. But his anger and tension keep growing, and he desperately wants to uncover this nonexistent conspiracy. So far he has not made any threats to anyone or to himself, so he cannot be forcibly taken against his will. The crisis center said all we can really do is to watch him and call 911 if and when he becomes angry again. 
 Is this what it comes down to? We have to wait for him to ATTACK or possibly even kill one of us for him to get help? PLEASE... what can we do to get Val the help he needs but refuses at every turn?