Have you ever been in love? True love? If doesn't have to mean a relationship or commitment. I'm talking about a love you express with a person. A bond so strong you cannot afford to lose it. It could be a close friend. A family menber. Or a relationship. I'm focusing on the love you express with a close person...Someone you can call your everything from the great menories and experiences you have had together. Of course nothing can go perfect. What happens when you feel that love fading? It will always be there, but there will be those little gaps in between. Sometimes a gap too big to recover. To get to the point....
    What would you say is right to make yourself feel better? I myself am stuck in this curse of love. With my close friend. We love each other to the end. It causes pain to stay with her, because events happen here and there, but, I can't last a day without her. If I don't here from here I go insane. I feel like I can't go on. I have an affection stronger than I do for myself. What happens when that person is fond of another that you love? It's kind of like a love triangle. With this guy I love. Jealousy is strong in the air...we all have it. But I feel myself losing...sure they both love me, but I feel like they are growing towards each other more strongly. I have paranoia, so this is why I ramble on. To let you know about me...I constantly over think...I get worried over the littlest things. I just don't know what to do. Their happiness means more than anything to me...but I can't be in this unstable behavior, because it will effect their behaviors as well. What I'm trying to get to is....how can I deal with this pain? Everyday. I don't have a choice. I love them so much. If I lost them, I would think if suicidal thoughts...well, depending on if they're happy or not...so what can I do? Any advice? Just to stabilize myself... One day it's good with them, the next I wonder if I regret anything.. It's confusing but I'm stuck walking in circles....
Sorry for the long read...writing helps calm my senses as well. Thank you..