Hi, 
I am so confused about what to do in my life. My boyfriend and i have been living together for 2 years and have a 20 month old baby girl. He has a really bad temper (which is only elevated by his consumption of beer) and refuses to go to anger management or get any help. I think this is partly due to the embarassment he feels for the way he acts sometimes. However 90%, maybe even 95% of the time he is the sweetest and nicest boyfriend and the BEST father to my daughter. But he has a "crazy switch" and when it's flipped he is abusive towards me. He has actually hit me 3 times now. All were alcohol induced.  Now the second occurance, i decided i had to do something due to the fact that i was scared of what he was going to do to me. I called my parents and took myself and my daughter to their house. It was a huge ordeal but time has mended many angered feelings. We had been fantastic up until last night. He hit, kicked, punched me and poured beer all over me. Now to do this to me alone is one thing but just thinking of the possibility that one day he will lose it in front of my daughter makes me sick. I know that he would never harm her, but i dont want to send the message to her that what he does is ok. I know that 90% of the answers people will probably give me are a simple "leave him" "move out" "end it". I understand that this would be the most apparent method of solving this problem but i truly believe that he can be helped. I am by no means making excuses for him. He needs help though and i have seen dramatic changes in him from the beginning of our relationship up until now. These occurances are major setbacks but there is still progress being made. I guess my question for everyone is just simple advice on how to help him cope with his anger. If i cant make him go to anger management, maybe i can be the one to bring anger management to him without him even realizing it. I need help, techniques, and advice to help me fix this painful problem in my family. Thank you so much.