I have suffered from major clinical depression throughout my life, however, there were issues that I never looked too deeply at due to the fact that I considered it part of depression.  I have recently had a severe episode with paranoia, and extreme stress -- in fact manic.  I immediately contacted my doctor, and he put me on abilify.  I've only been on the medication a few days, but already I feel the affects.  I'm much calmer (maybe a bit too much but I know these meds take time for acclimation).  I now believe that I have actually been suffering from schizoaffective disorder all my life and I have not properly been diagnosed.  This is not the fault of any of my doctors.  I mainly only discussed depression with them.   
 On occasion I have audio hallucinations.  When I have the audio hallucinations, I am completely aware that I am hallucinating.  I know that I am not hearing anything real.  As I said, they are rare, but have been going on for years.  Now here is the strange part.  In a nut shell, I lost someone I loved dearly when I was a child and have never completely got over that loss.  There have been many times throughout my life, when I have felt his "presence."  It is very strange what I'm about to tell you.  The crazy thing here is that he has given me warnings -- he has warned me many times to stay away from certain people, for example.  I don't hear his voice or see him, but just feel his presence and some how understand his message.  Everytime I have gone against his warnings, I have regretted it.  I question if there is a possibility that there is some kind of spiritual communication going on -- yet the rational part of me says this is nonsence.  Then again, maybe these experiences are another type of hallucination.  I really don't know.   
 I do know that I have experienced paranoia my whole life -- this has just recently come to my attention -- in my 50s!  As I said, I always blamed everything on depression.  When I was a child, I remember feeling a great deal of fear that whenever a member of my family went some where in the family car they were going to get killed in an automobile crash.   
 As I look back over my life, I now clearly see that paranoia and fear, along with depression, have hurt my life to a significant extent.  It hurt my professional life, relationships, etc.  You know, I never realized that I was suffering from more than one mental illness.  I am and I have to accept it.  I've also recently become aware that there are triggers that can set off feelings of paranoia and fear and lack of esteem.  I need to learn to recognize these issues and avoid them.  Once you know who your enemy is, then you can arm yourself.  It has just recently come to my attention that my mental state was far worse off than I realized.   
 Paranoia is simply hideous and I hope the abilify helps.     
 Also, could any of you explain to me what psychotic thoughts are -- what are they like for you?   Also, I there has always been a strong tendency in me to isolate.  I actually prefer to be alone.
 I really appreciate any help and insight into what I have experienced from any one.   
 Thanks, 
theblues100