Hi everyone,
 This is my first post here.  I'm sorry it's so long.  I'm facing the biggest crisis in my 38 years.  I married my best friend 11 years ago, not because I fell in love with her but because it seemed like everyone expected me to be with her. We were both passive people with little to no confidence in being able to date and find love for ourselves, so we secretly started sleeping together as more of a convenient coping way to make us feel connected to someone.  She got accidentally pregnant and we were too scared to face it, so she had an abortion.  I felt obligated to then stay with her and pursue a legitimate relationship, though I knew I wasn't in love with her.
 I realize now I was fighting depression then as I am now, and I made all my choices around what I thought others wanted me or expected me to do.  
 We now have three kids, and I've been going along with the assumption that this is what life had in store for me.  That was until I met someone else who really connected with me, who I fell deeply in love with, who showed me what it truly meant to be loved, happy, and excited to wake up in the morning.  She is also married with two kids.
 I cannot tell you how much this other woman changed my life and outlook.  I fell hard.  I fell completely.  It is the most honest, open, upfront, passionate, and complete relationship I've ever experienced.  True, we both are in marriages that are passionless and less than complete or open.  The connection we found was undeniable.  I promise you from the bottom of my heart that neither of us is the kind of person that seeks out affairs or has our eye out for escape in cheating on our spouses.  We were both shocked that what started as a friendship grew well beyond that over the course of a little over a year.
 I love this woman.  She loves me.  I believe when we're at our best we are able to fulfill both of our needs in a way I can't describe, from the way sex is far and away so intimate to the fact that we can be upfront about what makes us angry or upset and talk about it straight away - both of which are not the case in my marriage.  
 I am ready to leave my marriage and give life a chance.  She is not yet ready to make that change, and now she has seen my depression erupt into a full-out tailspin.  Wallowing, obsessing, exhaustion, unfocused, desperate, clinging.  A shell of the person she fell in love with, and it feels like an alien took over my brain and the real me is screaming to be let out again.
 My wife knows of the affair and of course wants me to sever all connections (including my job, where I work closely with the other person) to her.  
 I want change.  I want that feeling of happiness - the one that took over my life when I realized what being in love felt like.  I hate hurting my wife - still my best friend but not a passionate connection of love - and of course my children, who I love most of all.  But I need to do something for myself.
 I can wait, trying to fix a marriage that was maybe not right to begin with, and preserve my family structure.  But I know myself.  Depression treatment or not, I will always long for that feeling my new love provided.  It was the ultimate solution to the depression.  Every single symptom - everything I've struggled with for 25 years - disappeared when she entered my life.  I want that back.  I don't want it in drugs, though I'm ok still putting trust that drugs will help.  I don't see it coming from my marriage, because that relationship was born under the affect of depression and only seems to live underneath it.  
 How do I be strong and make the change?  How do I know the sickness of depression isn't clouding my perception of love still?  My wife compares me falling in love with someone else to cocaine - it makes everything feel better but becomes an addiction that is harmful.  I only want to tell her there's no better thing to be addicted to than love, and that if she found someone who made her feel that way I'd want her to follow it 100%.  
 I deserve to be happy, right?  How do I get there?  Am I a terrible person for finding happiness with an affair?  Am I a worse person for pretending it's not always going to be a part of me and going back to a relationship that hasn't been able to show me that vibrancy, that passion, that love of each day?  Do I owe it to my kids to stay in a marriage and be OK with partnering with a friend - nothing more than a friend - to raise three kids under one roof?
 Thank you for reading.  Thank you for this.