I’m a 14 year old girl and I think I may be depressed. I have very low self-esteem. I constantly worry about the way I look. I don’t think any boy will ever find me attractive. I have lots of spots and although I’m not fat to the extent that I am unhealthy I am a lot bigger than the vast majority of the other girls in my year at school. My weight is something that I have worried about since I was eight or nine years old. I am not very popular at school. I used to hang around with a group of girls who were very popular, very pretty and slimmer than me for a long time. I suppose they made me feel even more pressured into being slim and pretty and getting a boyfriend and things like that. One of the girls did nothing but put me down. I like to write stories, I play drums and write my own music and I want to become a professor of history, so I want to do well at school. Whereas all they were interested in was boys, make-up and shopping. When they went out together, it was often that I would be left out and they wouldn’t invite me. I recently made friends with two other girls. They share more of my interests and they are really nice to me and they seem to accept me the way that I am. But I don’t feel that I am able to talk to them about this because they are both very confident in themselves and I don’t think they’d really understand. I also thought that because I’m now friends with people I feel I ‘fit in’ with more and I am more comfortable around, that I’d feel better about myself – but the problem seems to have only gotten worse. My sister always spends the weekend with her boyfriend, but I don’t have one and my friends live very far away so I can’t meet up with them however often as I like, we only manage to go out together at weekends every few weeks, so I get very lonely during school holidays and weekends. I feel so lonely and ugly that I have considered suicide. I have tried talking to my Mum several times but she just says ‘all girls go through it, you’ll get past it.’ I know that it is not uncommon for teenage girls to worry about the way they look, feel ugly, feel fat ect. But this is making me so sad that I struggle to concentrate at school, I look into the mirror and cry, I get sick and I feel lonely and trapped as well as ugly and fat. My mum has only made the problem worse because she makes me feel like she is disregarding it, like she doesn’t care, like her job (she works long hours and works from home after work and at the weekend a lot) is more important than I am to her. Do you think I should try and speak to a professional about this? And if you do how do I go about doing this? 
I'm sorry this so ridiculously long, thank you for taking the time to read it.