My Mother has already treated me very badly.She has put me down all of my life. I was never good enough,always would make fun of me,& told me that I was never her daughter.
 I have never given my mother any problems. Never have done any drugs,drinking,been in jail,etc. But she always would tell people that there was something wrong with me. She would drag me to doctors & tell them that there was something was wrong with me & that I needed pills. She would make up stories to tell my teachers when I was in school that I was causing problems at home,& something needed to be done to me,also make up stories to our neighbors,people she worked with that I was a problem child.  My mother would also run to my Uncle with every little thing,& I would basically get the hell beat out of me for no reason at all.
 My mother still continues the emotional& verbal abuse to this day. I am a grown woman & married. She is still causing problems for me to this day.She has borrowed money in my name without permission,wanting pawn all of my possessions for money to bail her out of the jams she gets herself into. My mother still runs to my Uncle with every little thing to turn him against me.
 I also have a brother whom my mother treated him so much better than me. In her eyes,he does no wrong. She tells me that "your brother never gave me any problems- You were always the problem." My brother never comes around me either.
 My mother hates me for some reason,I don't know why. I have asked her,but she will not tell me why. My Mother had a very difficult relationship with my grandmother,& I have often asked myself if this is why she treats me like this.
 I was taken to the ER 2 times several moths ago with ear problems. I nearly lost the hearing in my ears,& my mother proceeded to cuss me out basically telling me that I was a pain,& that she has been having chest pains because of me,& some very other nasty things.
 When ever I would get sick -she would cuss me out, or after we would have an argument,she would tell me that I was going to be the one that kills her.
 We argued again this past weekend.and too,she always has to have the last word.
 I know she is my mother,but I m so tired of this. I have had enough. How can I break free from this? I can't go on anymore.