Hi. May I please ask for your help?
 I'm in what feels like a fairly urgent situation. Please reality check me if you think I need that. If not, I'm here asking for advice on how to help someone I care very deeply for who is currently going through a crisis with me. She is exhibiting to me what *might* be bod-ish symptoms, but I am not a professional, and am in no position to diagnose. Tell me what you think please.
 I'll give you a fairly detailed description of the situation. If nothing else, writing this down is feeling useful.
 WARNING: 2200 words follow. It's now 3am and three hours since I began writing this, but I think it was three hours well spent. I realised a few different things as I was writing this.
 I met F towards the end of last year. She is from what I'd call a conservative background, and I'm more libertine. There was mutual attraction there. I fell for her very quickly. She is amazing in so many ways. Wow. But I was an odd choice for her and we both knew it. First red flag i missed. Anyway, we were really intense together. And then a pattern began to emerge. It became quite obvious that she was investing in this in a different way than I was. For her, love was one thing or it was nothing. For me, there are many different kinds, all beautiful. But I'm an unconventional guy and an abstract thinker, where she is conventional and concrete. She wanted me to be the kind of person I could never be for her, but I'm mostly happy with who I am. I still really liked her, though, of course. She is a wonderful girl.
 Anyway, I'd be basically as straight with her as I am trying to be with you. I told her I couldnt give her the kind of love she was looking for. I am a poly guy. She is a traditional girl. I behaved as ethically as I knew how at the time (and screwed up a little - I've also been really drilling down into the ethics of my lifestyle choices as a result of this). I wasn't going to leave my lifestyle for her, but I really liked her, and she was free to have me in whatever capacity she wanted. I wanted to sleep with her. I was crazy about her! But, she needed to pay close attention to what was right for her and make whatever decisions with clarity. I was perfectly happy to respect any boundary she set (and in truth, I have immense emotional self control, and am very well behaved at respecting the boundaries of those I care about).
 Not exactly a great romantic, but anyway, she took the initiative and one thing led to a glorious other. We were great together in bed. I opened up to her completely, and I'm VERY selective about who I let my guard all the way down for.
 By this stage I was in love. Now my idea of love might not match with yours, and I'd be happy to talk about that but it's a side issue at the moment as I'm really needing other kinds of advice now please.
 So the pattern I was talking about. She'd say my situation was really confusing her and that we couldn't be lovers any more, and that she needed time to think where there was no contact between us. Of course, I would encourage her with absolute sincerity that I would miss her but that she was completely free to take whatever time she needed, and that I'd be happy to remain in her life in whatever way she wanted me to. I meant it. If she wants me as a friend, I will be a ******* good one for her. Despite our differences, we have a lot in common, and I enjoy every platonic second I spend with her. God, i *like* this girl. By now I am well aware that making love with her is a bad idea. A really ******* stupid one that in some way I still don't quite understand, seems deeply harmful to her. I deeply regret making this mistake, have had a good, hard, look at myself and will never make it again. And yes, I feel deeply guilty about the flaws in me that enabled this.
 Anyway, after breaking contact for a while, she would come back with a vengeance, assure me she'd thought it through and that the sex was so great that she was ok to just enjoy me as a 'special friends' relationship. God, she was a walking fantasy. She pushed all my buttons, found all my sensitive places both good and bad. And so, eventually I would be wooed back in, and my own great desire for her would perhaps cloud my judgement.
 I'm worried that my desire for her - not just her body, but her company, her wisdom, her laugh - didvcloud my judgement. Almost certainly. But to what extent? Did my own selfishness harm her? If so, how do I make it right?
 I should have seen, but I didn't. And I suspect I am to blame, at least in part. I'm not normally that blind to myself, however. I'm a fairly self-reflective kind of guy.
 So these cycles are getting worse somehow. There have been three that I can think of.
 The first was her taking a weekend, coming back and seeing me to tell me that sex wasn't right between us. I agreed, per above. And then, only an hour or two later, she was squirming over the seat begging me to kiss her. I had to almost push her off me, and as I was driving her home, she grabbed my hand and out it on her breast, tried to fondle my ****, and so on. I just kept telling her no, that she was obviously confused, etc. But a few days later she had me sincerely convinced that we could make this work for her, and we were at it again.
 The last was just before Christmas, where we spent a weekend together in her home town, after which she made me swear not to even reply if she tried to contact me before three months had passed. She was so sincere. I agreed. I struggled to keep that vow. There was a large incident in my town, she was legitimately concerned about my safety and texted me. I replied, and let her know I was keeping my promise. I received a very worrying text and voicemail from her asking me to destroy some photos of her I'd taken (demure nudes) because she would never want me releasing them and destroying her life.
 The thing us, I'd already destroyed them. I have no interest in keeping such things if I'm no longer intimately involved with someone, because I feel it's no longer my place to have them. I'd been in this situation before and destroyed them out of respect. I assured her that theyvwere for me only, and for thevduration if our relationship only, that that is what made them sexy to me, And I was telling the absolute truth (as I saw it - both the practice and distinction are important for me as truth is extremely subjective). I had already destroyed them.
 I was actually shocked that she would imagine this of me. Like I said, I'd really let my guard down for her and opened myself as honestly as I could. How could her perception of me be twisted so far that she would think me capable of that? I most certainly am not. Ethics are really very important to me.