Our neighbors recently started a fire in their kitchen. They burned down 3 apartments and cause significant smoke damage to the building. We were one of the ones who got off lightly with smoke damage, but we still had to move. The thing is, just 5 months ago we moved from IL to MN. So in the matter of 5 months we had to move twice. The second time we had to move was right after an extremely stressful and traumatizing ordeal. My DH, DD (5 years old) and I had to go off the balcony because our neighbors didn't wake us up when they started the fire. They left us in the building.
 Our DD has a speech delay and is emotionally sensitive. She seemed fine until she went back to school. Now she has these melt downs at school during nap time and the teachers just call us to come get her. They don't practice any of the strategies we've talked about and just get frustrated. So, not only are we missing work to pick up our DD from school, we lost a lot of work because of the fire and moving. The school social worker calls me to yell at me and tell me to put our DD in half days at school. This would never work because I don't get out of work at a specific time each day. I love how she makes plans for my DD without her parents, NOT. She's also not a therapist and is actually telling me to do the exact opposite of what my DD's therapist says to do. When I am in stress mode the last thing I need is someone breathing down my neck!
 I feel like I am at my wits end. My incredibly foolish neighbors started a fire they could have easily put out, but got scared and ran out of the building. Their mistake has forced our lives into panic mode. I love my DD so much and I hate the fact that someone put her life in jeopardy. I hate that the school social worker is trying to take over as her parent. The actual fire doesn't seem so bad as the aftermath. Going back to our normal schedules has been so hard. These people threw a wrench in our financial and regular lives. It's hard not to sit around and just be furious with them. I wish I could show them what they've done. My DH and I haven't even been able to go see a therapist together because we don't have time. When we have free time we are moving, cleaning, or taking our DD to her therapy sessions. AAH!