Hi,
I'm 17 years old who lives a pretty good life. I've just finished high school and have gotten accepted into the university of my choice. I have a good family and kind friends, a roof over my head, and clothes on my back. My family isn't rich, in fact my parents have to work hard for long hours so my brother (who is great) and I can live peacefully, but lately I've noticed that I either have a terrible personality or may have a little bit of a problem (or both).
Since the beginning of high school, I've noticed that I've lost interest in a lot of my hobbies. I used to read a lot of books and draw and write stories, but lately, I've stopped. I have more than six books that I've left on my night-stand, unread, for over two years. I hardly crack open my sketch book, and every time I try to write something, nothing flows.
When I'm with my friends or family, I feel very happy, but the moment I'm alone in my room, that happiness just disappears. Almost everyday I look back on parts of my life and constantly think that I'm not important and that it would be better if I was dead. I find myself crying a lot just because I keep thinking I'm the worst person ever. I don't like pain and I don't want to harm myself, but sometimes I think that I shouldn't have to worry too much about the future because I wont be there. The future scares me a lot and sometimes I get so frightened that I just don't want to live it.
I also have terrible self-esteem. I hate looking at myself and I hate being in pictures. Everyday I point out my flaws (including my personality). I often think that my closest friends think of my as an extra and that I'm just a burden to my parents (and that I can offer them nothing). I don't know if this is important, but I'm very socially awkward and my personality can change drastically depending on who I'm with, but I'm not faking nor lying (though this is most likely a normal thing).
When I'm with people I sometimes forget about all these negative thoughts, but when I'm alone, all those feelings and thoughts come and punch me in the face until I'm in tears. For days now, I don't think there's been a day where I haven't cried at night. I've honestly just been distracting myself with the internet these days.
I honestly can't tell if I actually might have depression or anything of that nature, or if I just have a trashy personality (though I'm leaning towards horrible personality).
Thank you to anyone who gave the time to read all this!