I have been trying to research why I am so irritable and I don't cry all the time, but I am really sensitive.  I am not a stay at home mom, but I am a mother of a 2 year old and trying to balance work, motherhood and time for my husband.  I do feel that I am OCD....I clean all the time and I feel that if my husband helps me, I have to re-do what he just cleaned.  I have these crazy outbursts sometimes....it's hard to explain, but I always take things the "wrong" way and I freak out.  When I freak out, I cry.  My boss can't even tell me that I did something wrong (tackfully) b/c I become very defensive and get mad and then of course, I cry.  I don't know what is wrong with me.  I have a great husband who does pitch in a hand every day, but yet, I sometimes just feel alone.  I have a lot of friends, but yet, I always feel like someone is talking about me behind my back (for no reason)  See, this all just seems crazy right?  I do have a doctor's appointment next week and I don't know even how to explain all this.  I am irritable, I have these outburst where I will just blow up at my husband over stupid things.  The main problem is I tell him he doesn't love me like he did 5 years ago (which he does) but it's like I always start a fight between us....I know it's not normal.  He tells me he feels like he is walking on egg shells when he gets home until he finds out what kind of "mood" I am in.  Does this make me a crazy person? Or have some kind of chemical imbalance or anxiety?  I have problems sleeping at night too.  It's like I can't ever shut off my brain and I continuiously think about what is going on in the next week or replay some of my bad outburst in my head.  I always know after my husband and I fight, that I started it (mostly 90% of the time anyway) and I feel so bad about it.  He is always so understanding and when I finally told him I made an appointment in regards to this, he was very supportive.  I don't know what is going on w/me but hope I get answers soon!