I am in my 30's with children of my own.  I have moved halfway across the country and yet it doesn't end.  I moved out of her house as a teen to live with my father due to physical and emotional abuse as well as her drug problems.  I got my life together and forgave her as she seemed to get hers more together as well, though she never apologized for her actions.  She was still emotionally abusive but stopped the drugs and physical abuse, I wanted to do the right thing.  I did not want the guilt of something happening to her and not having resolution.Then I gave birth to my children.  She began becoming more demanding, controlling, and degrading.  I moved out of state.  It got worse.  I can no longer return to my home state without a screaming irratic woman throwing tantrum after tantrum if she cannot control my time.  She doesn't hold words in front of my children and I would never allow my children to treat anyone in the manner that she treats me.  Furthermore, the more I accomplish in life the worse she seems to get.  I finally said enough was enough.  I ceased conversations with her all together, I could no longer emotionally handle it.  Well now the holidays are coming up and I want to return to my home state to visit with my fathers family and my sister.  I have not spoken with her or of her in a month.  My sister calls me and asks that I address Christmas and not put her in the middle.  Per her request I do so.  Since then it has been a full on verbal assault including nasty e-mails and voicemails.  Everything and anything she can say or do to hurt me.  I do not know what to do to make it stop.  I just want it to stop.  I don't want to feel guilt over my decision when I know beyond a shadow of a doubt it was the right one. She thinks that she has never done anything wrong and has never even apologized for all the horrible things she has put me through, nor do I expect it.  Does it ever stop hurting?  How do I get the verbal assaults to stop?  How can I walk away clean without all of this?