I have way more questions than I could ever ask ....
 But for today a breif background and a quick but important question.
 My young adult son is diagnosed schizoaffective disorder. His personality in some ways is
much the same as a few years ago. But in very impotant areas of life is a stranger to us.
He was on meds for about 9 mos and seemed to be doing better. Now we find out he's not
been taking them for at least a few weeks. He's again having serious dilusions and lies about
literally everything. Now he's acted up to the point his mother is in the hospital and he says
he doesn't care if she dies. He has always been a momma's boy???? Can this disease 
really change him that much? Or is it because he's off his meds?
 As of Monday his Dr said he was a danger to himself and others. By Wed when we got him
in to see the Dr himself the Dr says no he just needs some sex. I showed the Dr physical
proof that he was lying to the him. The Dr ignored it and told me he just needs sex and he'll
be ok you'll see. Really???
 Well that was Wed night. Now two days later this guy who just needs sex is in trouble with 
the law and most likely will loose yet another job. He never keeps a job for more than a 
few months. This one he's had for three and a half weeks and now today he got his new 
girlfriend to give him another employees check and cash it for him!!! He's never in his life
done anything like this... The store most likely will call the authorities in the morning, I don't
see why they wouldn't. He did get caught in a lie about it so returned the cash but that doesn't
take away the fact that he stole it. He claims he didn't know it wasn't his check yet he is on 
camera cashing his check and the other check. His girlfriend is the cashier who cashed them
both for him. Now the clincher! The other employee was his own younger brother! He stole 
from his own brother... really???
 Ok, turn off the drama, you get the picture. Is this really the disease or how much of this is
intentional lying? Can anyone help me to understand?
 CW