I'm 15. I have nearly everything I need,like I have money,a nice house,good phone and other appliances and my parents are still together and my family are fine. I just feel like there's something missing . I've turned to ciggarettes and weed to help but it's only filling a temporary gap. This may sound self centred but I wouldn't say I'm an ugly girl but I've always been self conscious. My dad is a fitness freak and he calls me fat .It all started when I was around 12/13, my father started to get very protective of me, I wasn't allowed any social networking sites except Facebook and he had my fb password and he'd read my inboxes, also he'd read my text messages and I was not allowed to have boys on my fb friend list or text boys. When the boys from my school asked me why I removed them off fb I'd get so embarrassed and they'd make fun of me when they found out why.  I have a group of friends but I feel like the  odd one out,they'd all be drinking and going to party's and staying out late but I wasn't allowed so they never asked me to join in, even if I did I'd be bored and my dad would track my iphone everywhere I went. When I turned 14 he stopped It and let me do what I wanted but he still read my inboxes. I felt so trapped. I had NO privacy.  I went through a Phase where I started self harming, my dad found out and he beat me. I told my school and they kept me there after school to interrogate. I talked to my counsellor (who I had been secretly meeting) and my dad forced me to come home, he told me to get out and told me not to come back, I walked to my friends house and after a while he turned up and dragged me out, he then took me home and removed my phone from me,grounded me and made me stay with him 24/7, I wasn't allowed to close the door of my room or go in the shower with the door closed. I continued to self harm on my legs where he couldn't see. After a few months things started to look up. I had a new phone for Christmas (after 9 months) and two months later on my 15th birthday I lost my virginity to my boyfriend of 5 months. My dad found out and stopped me seeing him/contacting him all together,, I've been grounded for two months and all I do Is sit in my room with the lights off and the curtains drawn and wish I would just stop breathing. he told me he sees me as a 10 year old now and he treats me like I'm not his daughter, he blames me for his relationship with my mother crumbling and I can honestly say I would rather be dead right now. People always tell me I'm depressed but my dad doesn't believe that mental ilnesses are real illnesses, in his words, "people who self harm are twats and they need to grow up. Depression ain't real it's just people being faggots"  I just need help before I crack even more. I'm scared of my self.