Hi I am not sure whether this is the right forum to go to.  I haven't spoken with my mother in 16 years.  She has moved, and never usually has a phone. My childhood was difficult because my parents divorced and my mom never worked.  She was supported by my uncle (her brother, not my dads).  I am guessing this was after my mom left, but my uncle while babysitting me would molest me and he had off and on for about 4 years (when I was 4-8).  Apparantly he had been doing the same to my brother and my other younger uncle.  My mother didn't believe me when I told her and said she didn't love me, and she would send me to live with my dad.  Since I loved her so much, I just said I was wrong, so that I could stay living with her. I loved her very much.  But then she changed when my uncle came out of jail.  He ended up living with us, and I hated him so we would argue al the time.  She always took his side. Then as I was becomming a teenager, her and I would fight, but usually I would just be watching TV with her and she would just call me names like b*&^%^ and **** (I was only 10) .  Finally at 14 she asked me whether or not I wanted to live with her anymore.  By this time, my father had been dating this nice woman and she had a cool family.  My mom gave me a week to decide.  She told me she was moving far away, but didn't say where (by the way she never moved).  For this whole week she was hateful to me. This made me want to live with my dad, so I did.  Well she said the day I was leaving she said she was sick and the doctors couldn't do anything for her, but she said I could visit anytime I wanted.  I never visited out of fear for my uncle, and so I would write her letters.  She never wrote back, never called, even though she knew my number.  My step mom who was the nice woman turned out to be wierd as well.  She would say I was lazy even though I would help her clean more than her own daughter, and other such things.  So here I am left with no mother.  Its been rough going through my teen years and twenties with no one to give me the love I should have gotten from a mother.  I have issues with my self esteem and I don't know how to fix the lost and sad feelings that are left from basically never having a real mother. I feel like a child inside and I am tired of being afraid of life.  Can anyone out there tell me how to stop feeling all this pain, and abandonment?  I am 30 years old and would just like to live my life like a normal person, and I feel lately that these lingering feelings are causing me to hold myself back..Thanks.