Hi, my doctor just prescribed me methadone for pain control.  We've tried various other meds, the last was extended release morphine, which at 90 mg 3 times a day didn't even knock my pain as much as an ibuprofen would.  I have always been extremely drug resistant, from the very first visit to the dentist, first surgery, or first exposure to narcotic pain meds.  They say I have a genetic mutation which I guess is much more common in red heads (which I am) So I Just have to take more than most people would.
I have a whole host of diseases, but I'm almost completely bed bound now (at 29) and can only be up in a wheel chair for short stints because of the pain.  I have Tylenol 3, and Percocet to help with break through pain.  Sometimes they help, sometimes not.
But anyway, the treatment I am going through is kind of like chemo, you feel a ton worse before you get better.  So we are just trying to manage the pain enough that I stop throwing up, passing out, having seizures etc etc., from the pain.  I also have a 2 year old little boy that I am unable to care for at all, so some decent pain management is really a key.  My doctor says I can't get well without better pain management, cause I can't do my treatments when I'm in bed incoherent and vomiting and convulsing, and if I can't do my treatments, I can't get well.
 Anyway, I know NOTHING about methadone.  For all the other drugs I've tried, and working in the medical field for 6 years, I've just never been exposed to it.  So I'm trying to research on the internet, but just keep finding horror story after horror story of people dying in their sleep, and overdoses, and even dying when taken exactly as the doctor prescribed.  I'm freaking out here!  I have to have relief, and I can't afford some of the "better" options, like some patches etc.  My medications for my treatments already cost over 2 grand a month, so I need a more affordable option.
 I've tried every possible natural remedy, been to many many doctors, both MD, specialist, naturopath you name it, so please don't try to talk me into doing something without drugs.  We are way past that point.  I won't live without intervention with pain meds.
 Is what I am hearing true!  Is it so dangerous I shouldn't touch it with a ten foot pole?  My doctor is a specialist, and he's never steered me wrong before, but wow what I am reading is making me feel like I'm going to go into a panic attack if I take one, and be afraid to sleep cause I might never wake up.  Help?  Anyone?  Good stories with methadone for pain?  Do I need to chill, or is it really so deadly no one should take it EVER?  Thanks so much for any help!