How do you know if your husband is crossing the line?  My husband and my son are two of a kind...both have tempers like you wouldn't believe.  However, I feel like my husband should be able to control his better and while he has improved (long story here-too much to go into right now), I find myself wondering when/if he has crossed the line and his "discipline" borderlines abuse.  Tonight, our son was extremely irritable and lashed out at his sister (there's a constant bone of contention between the two of them).  When my husband tried to get our son to calm down my son (7 years old)  became angry, claiming that we always blame him, it's always his fault, yelling, etc.  At one point he was trying to hit my husband-whose reaction was to put him in a headlock to restrain him and get him to calm down.  This isn't the first time he's done this and afterwards my son complains that his neck hurts.  My son gets very emotional and upset after his dad does this, he cries and asks me "Why does he do that?" and the focus completely leaves any misbehavior from my son and focuses solely on why Dad acts like that.  After he's calmed down I talk to my son about the choices he made and better ways to handle the situation...but in my opinion is hard for him to understand why its not okay for him to try to physically intimidate his sister when that's what Dad does to him.  My husband has never hit him, aside from a spanking here and there, and he's never left any bruises (from hitting-there was one on his arm when he held son's arm too tight in another moment of son hitting/kicking & dad trying to make him stop)...but I'm still left wondering if I'm overreacting or are my instincts right on target...is he crossing the line?
 I know that my son's behavior needs work (we've been working on it & most of his issues are medically related due to asthma meds and severe OSA making him tired and irritable)...but as I said-I don't expect a 7 year old to be as well equipped to manage their temper as a 37 year old adult.  What do you all think?