Hi I am new here and have just found this brilliant forum and hope that someone maybe able to give me some advice. I realise that you are not doctors and cannot diagnose me but I am hoping if I tell you what has been going on for me then maybe some can help.
 I live in the UK and recently my Psychiatrist decided that I no longer showed enough symptoms to be diagnosed BPD. I was first diagnosed over 10 years ago as a 17 year old teenager. I was in a psychiatric hospital on a section at the time after a major suicide attempt. When I was discharged I had a lot of help and I had a social worker and therapist. Some years on and I met my now husband and slowly the psychiatric services took away my support and left my husband to care for me... Not only is this not fair my husband is Bipolar.
 We got married in 1999 and we had our first child in 2000. I was informed by a social worker that they wanted to take away my son because of my previous suicide attempts (a major one where I lost a leg) and self harm. I promised that I would try not to do these things and they agreed to let us keep our son under supervision. All went well until I became psychotic just after he was born. Although the social workers didn't know for fear of them taking our boy. In the end after 6 months being psychotic we told a doctor and I was prescribed solian, the psychosis slowly came under control. My psychiatrist then put me back on paxil and also epilim chrono. I was watched for another two years that is until we had our second child. I hadn't had an symptoms since the psychosis or should I say we kept the symptoms quiet. However I was not self harming and I was not taking over doses. After our second son was born they totally took away all of my support except I was to see the psychiatrist every six months.
 At my last appointment my psychiatrist informs me that because I had shown no symptons in 8 years he was taking away my borderline diagnosis. This came as a bit of a shock especially as I have a tendancy to go very high and am very depressed all of the time. He told me my diagnosis was now chronic depression.
 So I went home and decided that if I am cured I will stop my medication I stopped my medication over the following 6 weeks. BIG MISTAKE within a week or so of lowering the dose I was very very high so high that I was saying things to people that were out of order and was having a huge spending spree. I stayed high for about 3 weeks when my mania turned into psychosis again. I was taken to see the gp and was immediately restarted on my medication.
 I went for an emergency appointment with the psychiatrist and I asked him whether that was my BPD and his answer surprised me. He said he didn't want to label me instead treat the symptoms.
 Now I am at a loss as to why I went manic then psychotic. When I am on my medication I am ok when I say ok I am sort of nothing not high and not depressed and do not have the chaotic or the very painful feelings of being borderline.
 I know there is something wrong I just do not know what,
 Does this sound BPD to you all?
 I hope that you can help 
 chocolatepills22