Hi, I have a concern and I am not too fond of talking about it, it is a little embarrassing for me. But I really need someone's help...
I am going into my adult years and have decided to not have sex until I get married. However, I have not meant to but fallen into messing around with a guy. We both have decided not to have sex or mess around, but one thing lead to another... Anyway, I'm sorry this is going to be graphic but, I have never had sex so I do not know all the details others may know. Straight to the point, his penis was in me, but not all the way. To be honest we aren't sure how much but it didn't seem like it was much because I am tight and a virgin, and we weren't trying to have sex. Anyway, I thought he was just moving his body in mine and then I felt the bed was wet so we stopped. It looked like he had ejaculated, but we both weren't sure, his penis was no longer erect like it was just moments before. He wasn't too worried about it and he thinks I should be fine since we didn't actually have sex or anything close. But I've been researching and people were saying that the penis can "throb" or "pulse" before ejaculating and I think maybe that is what I felt when I had thought he was just moving his body (so this worries me). I have also read that it is possible for sperm to travel up even when the penis isn't all the way up into the vagina (worried more). AND, today I felt something thin and liquid coming out quickly from my vagina and it was not discharge. I read that *** can still liquid out of your vagina up to 4 to 7 days (but that's if you actually had sex), but I'm still afraid that's what it was and now it's coming out, which means it was in me... which means... could I, even with the smallest possibility, be pregnant? I've been on birth control for cramps but I haven't taken it in a few days because I just ended my period. Please don't lecture me about protection. My purity is so important to me and I hate myself for falling into the temptation (even though I always stop myself from doing the whole thing). Today is Tuesday afternoon and this happened Sunday night so I have time to see a doctor or buy a Plan B pill. But I don't want to do that if what I'm thinking is stupid, again, I'm not experienced so maybe I am scared for no reason. 
 Please, can someone give me a good answer on what they think medically wise. 
 Thank you, 
 Elizabeth