I am 22 weeks pregnant, my husband and I who have always known of each other, had fallen into a whirlwind romance. We have a 2 year old son, I had a miscarriage last year. We have been married a year, together for 2. My husband started hitting me early on, he was always very sorry. He has been very destructive to my things. Broken glasses, phones, punched cars, no problem destroying things. He has a history of alchol and drug abuse. Was incarcerated for over a year due to DUI's. He could sell sand at the beach and is extremely charming. He could get anyone to believe anything he wanted. His mother in particular has always cleaned up his messes. He was a problem child. He has a history of sleeping around. He is jealous. He makes it a point to talk to ex girlfriends, and makes sure I am aware of it...usually after I find out, he acts like it is nothing. He has a huge ego. He loves his appearance. He doesnt work steadily, and has not for a very long time. He lies to everyone about little and big things. He has a sense of entitlement that I can't understand. He has a hair trigger temper. He loves to go to bars and party like he is still a teenager....He is 36. He surrounds himself with female friends. He has no remorse for anything, in fact he can usually twist things and actually make them seem as if things are always someone elses fault. He has no sense of responsibilty, nor does he worry about long term. He doesnt have a life plan nor can he stick to one. And when he says that he wants a good life and to settle down, nothing ever comes to fruition. He has this way of making others think I am crazy, even after they have seen his behavior towards me on a bad day. I had to leave him after he hit me while our son was in the hospital, we were in his hospital room. After he went back and forth, nice to mean, once I agreed to allow him to see me or are son, he would invent fights not to show up and then blames me. 
 It finally turned into him being arrested for domestic assault. He is now IN LOVE with me, and wants to work things out. I do love him and feel like I should try for ourselves and the kids to work on things. We have an amazing time together when things are good, and an incredible sex life. My husband is handsome, funny, charming and a good father when involved. He takes amazing care of me when things are good. He is protective and loving. 
 I sound crazy now.....I know. I am just afraid that he is a true blue PSYCHOPATH. I am afraid that he will turn again. Or amI just reading to much and overthinking...
 On one hand I really dont want to loose him, he really is my best friend. On the other hand he makes me feel as bad as he does good. He has never hurt our son physically but I understand the gravity of the emotional toll and harm if he doesnt change. I just dont know what to do. I am really in love with him. 
 In love, confused, pregnant, and afraid to stay and afraid to go.....
  ASab