I have a 5 year old stepson. His dad and I have been together since April. I've only been around him twice now. Every time I am around him he keeps trying to get rid of me after his daddy picks me up. He is like we take you home now and I haven't even been around them like 5 secs or more. He started this a few weeks when I first meet him. They had pick me up after my great nephew's ball game. We get back to the hotel I wasn't even there maybe like an hour. He is like we take you home now me wanna show you the elevator.  I was like no baby I am staying with you and daddy. The next day he did it again and my fiance disciplined him for it. I made the mistake of letting his mom hang with us the next day thinking she would change. I was wrong she didn't at all. That night he kept trying to get rid of her. Of course my fiance and I got onto him about running in the hotel room since we got reported about it. He kept doing it and would not listen. My fiance and I are trying to raise him like we was raised with the same disciplined we got, Finally after the last time my fiance got him good for running. He runs to the hotel little closet. I went to go talk to him but he kept going go away leave me alone. He is also does not want me to give him a bath or change his clothes. He is like really rude like with will you turn your head or go away to another of this place. The next night a few weeks ago he let me give him a bath. Last night he is doing the same thing again with the we take you home now,you go home,go away leave me alone,he starts whining or crying when he is disciplined like some kids do. My fiance and I kept telling him he was going to go see papaw and mamaw(my fiance's parents). He kept looking at me we take you home me go see papaw and mamaw with daddy. This morning he got mad at us both cause he wanted to go swimming and we kept telling him we had to check out of the hotel before 11 am. This was after 10 am and it was 30 mins to 11 am. Once again he ran off to the bathroom started the whining and hurmping like a puppy. I tried talking to him while my fiance was holding he kept going go away leave me alone. 
 I am at my whits end and this is the only second time I have been around him. I honestly believe mommy isn't helping any. Cause she keeps blowing up my fiance phone and keeps telling him to put it off speaker. He has told her over and over to quiet. It pisses him off when she tells him she doesn't want to be on speaker phone. My stepson talks to her for a few mins and wanders away. His mom keeps telling him he has to listen to both daddy and I. But it seems like it goes in one ear and out of the other. My fiance and I do not let him get away with anything. I've had to take a few things away or put him in a time out which does no good either. He keeps getting up and doing what he pleases. He defines me and his father during the disciplining part. My fiance has a picture of him and his mom as her phone photo background. He was like that is me and mommy where is a picture of you,me,and mommy that would be great daddy. I am appalled and my fiance is like no son I am with Libby(which is me) now. My fiance however does not like his baby mama for personals I won't go into. He has recently started crying for her I want my mommy,I want my papaw and mamaw(her mom and dad),me wanna go home. 
 My fiance wanted to go show me where he use to live and where a Tornado destroyed some tree. My stepson remembers this tornado really well and talks about it alot. He goes me show you that tree then maybe we can find a place and we find you a place. I said no Zander I will live with daddy and he goes me too. I know my stepson loves me but his behavior I don't understand it. Especially this trying to get me go home after being with them like an hour or a day,go away leave me alone,and etc. I don't know what to do anymore. I've said something to my fiance he is like my son is like that but he has disciplined his son for trying to get me go away and etc.
 The only concern I have is when he gets older and he won't show respect. I just need help in what to do for this? I honestly believe his mommy is telling him stuff and he thinks its ok cause I am stepmommy that he can get away with it. Yes my stepson is his daddy's boy but still though. His mom keeps trying to cause problems with me and his father. But his father done told her he would never been back with her ever. His ex tries to get his older brother to do stuff as well like he was at the family reunion a few weeks ago and kept spying on my fiance and I. My stepson's mother thinks I am going to leave cause of the drama. I can handle the drama a lot better than most could.I just can't understand why my stepson is like this with me. He is fine other wise but then he is right back to we take you home now. 
 Help me before I pull my hair out.