Hello. I'm a 17 year old female who has been feeling really down lately but it wasn't just the normal sadness. This feeling has been going on for about 8 years now and I think I may be suffering from depression. I would love to go check it out but I'm too afraid. I think this depression may have started since I was 7 years old. I'm an Asian female and they are not supposed to be very tall but at the age of 7, I have exceeded the height of 140 cm. It’s a medical condition called Marfan syndrome. It affects your eyes, heart and backbone. The symptoms are very visible. Anyway, so since I was freakishly tall, I was already listed on the outcast list. The girls didn't like me because I was different but not everyone was like that. I would usually have one friend among all and it will always be a girl. The guys in class were extremely aggressive. They would call me names and bully me mentally. At first it was just a joke and I was still young. I didn't know the word Bully existed or what it meant. They would usually say that if I were to grow up I would take over as the tallest building in the world (I know, it’s stupid) but I would usually laugh to it. I didn't take it seriously until they, instead of keeping it between classmates, decided to keep it between schoolmates. They would call me names when I go anywhere in front of everyone - my seniors, other peers and so on. I told them to stop but they ignored it. People who saw would giggle and teachers who saw though it was just kids playing. This continued until the next year. They just wanted to provoke me. I told my mom and she told me to ignore them. I did and it stopped for a few days but it continued. The next year, I was still being bullied and it was then they took it too far because I wasn't provoked. They started to bully me physically. They would sometimes kick me from the front and back while I'm walking or punch me or maybe pushing me down wet ways and hills making my uniform all stained with dirt. My father was strict so I can't tell him anything or he'll just shout at me or come to school and make things worse by embarrassing me even more and my mom was too busy with my other siblings. I come from a very big family. Every time I come home I'll be scolded for the dirty uniform. It was hard to cover the dirt when your uniform is white. So I would usually say I was rough housing in school because of that I was constantly scolded. I was too scared to say anything for fear of what will happen. So, coincidentally, the guy bullying me was my homeroom teacher's son. One day my mom came to school because she was suspecting something. She came to talk to my teacher and the teacher called me. I told her I was being bullied by the teacher's son and the teacher was indeed very shock about that news. The teacher said next time if anything were to happen, tell her. I thought of it but I changed my mind when the bulling happened again. This time they would call other male students from other class to join along. My self- esteem was breaking slowly. There was this one time where I was playing with the other girls in my class on a round table made out of stone and surrounding it was 12 round stone chair. The game is where you have one person on the table and they have to try to reach us slowly and if they ever touch us we would switch positions. It was fun until the boys came along. I decided to withdraw but they said that there weren’t enough players. I had to join for afraid people might hate me for being such a loser. I joined and it was my turn on the table. I reached out this girl and easily touched her head. I ran to my spot but as I was about to jump, she already grabbed a guy and he pushed me down from the table. I hit my head, the back of my neck, scratched my legs and hurt my hips. I remember I was limping all day. I tried to hold in my tears but accidently cried. It wasn’t out loud. I was trying my best but the tears kept on dripping but finally I stopped because there were lots of people. I was brought to a teacher and she told me to just sit in class for a while and learn. I was so scared because I thought she was going to call my parents. In class, I sat with fear to see one of my parents appearing at that front door but luckily they did not. School was over and I was limping my way back to a nearby bus stop. When I saw my car, I also saw my father. I took a deep breath and tried my best to walk like normal. It hurt but I would do anything than to be shouted in front of everyone. That was one of my father’s habits - shouting at me in front of everyone. Once I reached home, I wanted to tell my mom but she was already stressed out with my other four younger siblings and my other 3 older siblings. So, I walked to my room, locked the door and tried to look at my injuries by myself. I hid this accident from my parents until now. I could actually feel the pain as I turn b\my back. Then slowly I cried and slowly it got louder and higher. I buried my face in my pillow and cried out loud because it hurt so bad that I can’t even tell my parents. So, I don’t think this helped or whatever but I just wanted to get this load of my chest for a while. This is only a scratch of my problem. If I go on, it may take days and my fingers might have been broken in the process. Haha. Not.