i dont understand whats wrong with me, my friend who has BPD thinks i have this, i felt offened angry about this, but even more angry that she thinks i dont want to be treated, i just cant deal with pressure and i cant do anyting by myself, i feel like i'm scraming out for help yet no one can hear me, and yet for some reason i found this website and i feel i can write on here what i feel.. i tried to seek help about 11mnts ago, my friend who i used to see came and visted me and could see the state i was in and took me to a couciller, who was worried and refered me to a doctor who put me on anti depressants, who then sent me to a phycologist, but they thought i had BP but they sent me to a phychatrist who didnt listen to a thing i said and got my whole history wrong and because  i was also ill with tonsilits at the time all i could think of to say was that i was tired.so he said that i had a mild depression, i kept seeing the phycologist but it didnt help, she thought i might of had an onset of BP because my moods swings where to quick for BP, i was angry and missed appointments so i didnt want to go back.. now i feel i'm back to the same silent place i was in before, my partner that i have been with for 6 years dosent listen to me cause he says he dont know what to do, and my parents just dont belive in things like mental health, they just think its got something to do with the devil, even though my mum ignores her sister who has BPD.. thinks she is just makingit all up.. so i have no suport, my teacher also thinks i have BPD too but this was ages ago she said this and i feel so stupid talking about it, i feel like well i'm not crying right this minute so i must be fine, i'm not trying to kill my self right now so its ok Right! but i'm scared, i'm scared of what i'll do next. my boyfriend says i'm over reactive to everything, i cant control myself i can switch from being happy to having a compelete break down just over something really stupid that i forget, or i jsut think that he dosent care about me he dosent love me because he might of looked funny.. and then this will end up with me and kniefs or trying to take pills hitting myself bashing my head on the wall.. or i think my frineds are all against me so i drink stupids amounts of alchol like a bottle of vodak in a space of an hour my friends say and i dont remember drinking it and i dont remember trying to kill myself. i gues my most recent bad episode that left me think the next day i couldnt understand why i did that.. on australia day, and i didnt want to go to my boyfriends friends place i didnt know what i wanted to do my friend wanted to catch up too but i turned her down.. my boyfriend left and i cant really rememer how i got there but i sent lots of abusive message to him i hated him i hated him so much i was going to leave then i was going to kill myself and it just went on i spent the day in my wardrobe i locked the doors from the inside out my parents rang and rang and i didnt answer they tured up i heard them knocking the dog escaped next door i didnt know but someone keep knocking i was in tears my eyes had swelled up so much i couldnt see and i had bags like old people, i rang and rang my boyfriend sending bad messages and phone calls i took out the knief and i scratched my body and the walls and floors and doors i was out of controll i was screaming down the phone i broke my phone cover i was wanted to die i wanted to over dose my boyfriend after hours got me to pick him up he was drunk i was so paranoid someone was at the door but i manged to get into my car and drive to town i parked streets away becuase i didnt want to see anyone, i drove stupid on the way home and drove off the road into a pilon and then tried to drive into a tele post but myboyfriend stoped me  i then drove out and repetedly bashed my head and that the next day i had brusiers all over my fore head.. i dont know how to control this, i feel like my boyfriend abandons me even when he leaves the room or is outside and i cant find him.. i used to follow him to the toilet, most of the time i feel like there is nothing in my life i used to go to church with my parents i thought that the emptyness was because i hadnt excepted god enough.. but now well i dont know, i get so focused on things like jobs and study but as soon as one thing goes wrong or someone says something i'll drop it at a hat pin.. its why i have now only compeleted one year of my course. my boyfriend tells me i act like my sister who is only very young says i turn into a child and he hates treating me like this he dosent know what to do with me.. my step dad and i hated each other and home when i lived there was horrible for them, he wanted me to leave, every night i would have the house crying and screaming i moved out three years ago now.. they kinda of excepted my behaviour when i was 13 but like when i was throwing sandwhiches at my mum when i was 20 because i thought she was against me and i couldnt control myself they werent happy..  i have happy times to but not as often and i do stupid things then to and i also get strange things like thinking there is a swap out side my window and all the animal noises get louder and louder but then i look and its not there, i find myself getting into trouble by falling in love with people after meeting them and i know that i love my bofriend but i get confused and then it gets messy. sometimes i want this all to go away but then sometimes i dont liket the idea of getting better becuase then i would lose who i am i have always had identity problems having lived in two countries.. maybe i just dont want to lose what i know.. i dont really know.. this is getting very long now and i'm so confused i'n not sure where i was going with this.. i gues i just want help