I was in a relationship with a person who seems like they have these symptoms and I'm wondering what to do now that I have ended it and whether or not it sounds like this disorder.  Basically, this person had episodes of explosively violent behavior when they feared I was leaving their side.  They would do outrageous things like jump on to my vehicle and punch me or other people that were around that they seemed to be jealous over. (even when these people were only family members of mine.) They often seem very needy.  They would say things like "why are you treating me this way, you hate me, i hate myself," or other things related to feeling like they were being ignored or looked down on. I know that they had a parent that abandon them at a young age.  They have told me about how their remaining parent has ignored them when they complained of verbal abuse or bad treatment by a step parent.  They have had sexual confusion at times.  They have done things like cheated but blamed it on alcohol. It seems that when i'm around and alcohol is involved they often feel rejected by me or extremely needy.  They have treated to kill themselves if I leave them before even if I only wanted to step out of the room and regather my thoughts.  I have had to call the cops after violent spells they have had.  They have punched holes in the wall next to their bed.  Also, it seems like they are extremely dependent on friends, irresponsible, and full of excuses.  They also seem regretful and sometimes seem like they hate themselves for mistakes they have made.  They have accidentally injured themselves in the mist of being in a different state of mind and pleading for me to stay and listen to them even after they physically hurt me.  Sometimes the person seems completely normal and happy, but i feel like i trigger these episodes in some way that I don't know.  Alcohol always makes this show up.  Some family members of theirs that help support them seem to be kind of in denial that the mood swings are that abnormal.  When you are jumping on to a moving vehicle, jumping out of a moving vehicle, and abusing people around you, i don't think that is a normal reaction...nothing completely obvious triggered these events except for in the past, the fear of being left only when they were in that different kind of mental state.  Although my cutting off communication with this person is still fresh, i tried to let them know they have been forgiven and tell them they are a good person that just needs some therapy to help.  Ive been very patient.  I will get messages saying they miss me or they are sooo sorry but in denial that they have a problem..they blame incidents on things that didn't occur like possibly being drugged...they also claim they have no recollection of events that happened.  What is this?