Hi ladies, I figured I would post here too :) given I just turned 49 and so many of my health issues seemed to go unresolved.  I am at the point where I actually try to tell myself "whelp, it must be hormone (or lack thereof) related, LOL.  I mean when you can't find the reasons behind so many issues it could drive one crazy.  Half my brain says, "you have to be responsible and learn and take care of the things you can with yourself/fix those things that can be fixed", and the other half of my brain wants to just forget about it all together b/c I am getting consumed by my health challenges.  Ugh. So, here I am to ask if anyone has a good recommendation for sleeping as I believe that if I could just get the amount of sleep I once did many of my issued might just go away.  I actually was on a VERY small dose of clonazepam for about 2 years in the evenings which sorta helped, but I got concerned about what it might do if I continued and I sware I had withdrawal from it even from the smallest amount.  Now I am asking myself if it was worth go off it, ugh.  b/c since then I have developed other health issues.  So... am trying melatonin but even on that I am only getting about 4 to 4 and a half hours of sleep most nights. I am an 8 hour a night girl OR used to be...I know that is what I need to function well.  I have heard some folks say they only need 4-6 hours a night, NOT me.  I am putting even more pressure on myself to get this under control and make it worse. Then there is the excitability, ugh.  Total overreaction to the small stuff.  I even yelled at my dad "I am hormonal and can't handle ANYTHING right now!!!" Poor man :(     Anyway I knew these days would come and I have FEARED them from an early age just b/c puberty was so yucky I figure the reverse had to be pretty bad too, LOL.  I had a mom who had a hysterectomy early so she didn't experience the natural progression to be able to tell me about the whole menopause thing.  Whelp,  Here I am, maybe you all have some good 411 for me!  THANK YOU in advance. I have two precious young grand children I want to have the health and stamina to help with, JUST LOVE THEM TO PIECES :)   Blessings.