- Hello, I'm A Seventeen year old that needs answers. 
 I've became emotionally numb and detached from situations that occurred in my life. I'm diagnosed with ADHD/ADD and I take meds.This became a major problem for me to accept. i Never felt Like, i could be my self around other people, because it was such a big Problem. Everyone would always ask me, "Did you take your meds.?"  , everywhere i go. Sadly, That question gets to me and i get extremely mad. When I was in the 7th grade, I Had to increased my meds because i started to show an impulsive behavior. I got into many fights and started failing.  I was angry. It was like i wasn't accepted in my family. I Questioned Why me. I would reach out for help, but i get turned down. My father concluded that I was just bad. 
My father is another major problem. He's very tough. The way he gets his point across is by verbally abuse. So I was never right in his eyes. I Always wanted a father daughter relationship. Since i wasn't getting that, i started to feel empty and began to act out. When He And get Into Arguments, it never goes well. He would hurt me to the core with his words. I Felt it wasn't fair how he would say such things to me. Instead crying, i got mad. He always told me that crying makes you weak. So I kept it all in.   I tempted Suicidal 2 In My Life, because i was tired of feeling lonely, being hurt..
I felt empty, so , again, i started to act out and be in these different relationship. I wanted attention. My relationships never went well. I Wanted to soo much in it. I cheated multiple times and I had alot of friends with benefits. But I still didn't feel anything and i got frustrated. When I got cheated on, used, played i started to feel what i was used to feeling. So i was expecting it from everyone. I Just wanted to feel something. 
There are times where i get soo mad at my dad , i would black out. My mom told me there was a time where it seemed like i was Possessed. It was like, my dad wanted me to break down, because he would keeep goiing until he seems a tear.. He Just Didn't believe people had problems. They were excuses to him. 
When my friend died..  Thats when i started to get worse.  People started to get mad that i cried so hard. They would say, you didn't even know him like that. Which hurt.  So When i got home, i figured that my family would Be there for me. I Was Wrong. My little said, "You always want the attention." my mom barely gave a hug and My dad gave me a fake hug. I Felt lonley. So i got mad, and cried and cried and Cried, Until m came in And Was yelling. He told to stop crying. He said i cried like i was his mom. He told me i was weak.. I Spoke up and said, All i want is hug. I Need you right now, i don't need this. He told me no, furiously. He got his tablet and Recorded me and told me he was going to send this off to show my friends. Right there, I wanted to die. I didn't want to live this life. I didn't want to be a target.I wanted to be free. I Just wanted a dad; not a coach, not a teacher a dad... So every since then i made sure that no one can never hurt me nor see a tear. 
This Is A problem. I want help. I tried to fix it, But it didn't help. Me being this has affected alot. Its even affecting the relationship im in. We've been together for a year n a half. He's 2 years older than me, and he treats me like a queen. But I put this wall up so that i can never be hurt again. He promises he won't, but i don't trust him. I'm Wishing and pleading that i can just bee a girl who has emotions; Who can cry whenever. I'm tired of putting a smile on that really  shouldn't be there. I'm tired of not feeling anything. I just need help.