To whom it may concern :
  To get to my question I need to give a bit of background information. Please bare with me.
 I had a childhood that was pretty awful; my parents had a violent relationship and divorced shortly after I turned one. After which each parent was abusive, mentally as well as physically. I was in and out of court and custody battles most of my young life, and bounced back and forth between parents all through my life until my last 4 months of my senior year my grandparents took me in after I had been attacked by my father in his drunken rage. 
 Obviously,there's alot more detail involved and specific instances, but to make a very long confusing story short, I had alot of emotional issues, and anger issues,  for as long as I can remember. However, I've always been fairly good at controlling them.
 In about the 10th grade, I asked to see a psychiatrist because I felt as though my parents were crazy, and I needed an outlet. I talked with my psychiatrist many a time, and she understood exactly where I was coming from and it brought her to tears sometimes.She eventually gave me a personality test for the heck of it. The results came back that I was Schizophrenic. She shrugged the idea off, because she said she had witnessed ZERO signs of that in the many, many meetings we had previously had. 
 I am now 23, happily married, and the proud parent of 2 children. I am a stay at home mom, and find myself to get irritated quite easily on occasion, in which case I blow up and my temper flares. I've never hurt my children, the worst I've ever done is spank their butts and even with that I felt such guilt that I haven't done it in a very very long time, and promised them I never would again. I get irritated very quickly with my husband when i feel he isn't taking his responsibilities seriously enough. In my opinion, this is alot of cabin fever, as I do not get out much. maybe once a week tops.
 My entire life my dad has planted  ideas in my head, suggesting that aliens COULD exist, that they COULD come back sometime, we've always had long deep conversations about these sort of theories. I've always found them very interesting and thought provoking. Among many other theories we have on what the origin of life COULD be, etc. I've never insinuated that these things ARE real or true, but have always kept an open mind. I've always been afraid of the dark as well.
 Since my husband works a rotating shift, he often leaves to go to work, and I am left home overnight with the kids. Being over protective as I am, sometimes I get nervous ,and my imagination flares and I wonder.. omg.. what if there really ARE aliens, what if they're outside, etc. I know these are quite silly ideas.. yet at the same time I maintain that they are possible, even though they may not seem plausible to everyone.
 Sometimes I do have a tendency to stay up late at night, out of fright. I've never heard noises or seen anything; it's more like an over-active imagination getting the better of me. I have been taking anti-anxiety medicine for almost a year now, which has helped with my occasional worry and anxiety.
 However.. I have been seeing a  new psychiatrist for about 3-4 sessions now, and he's a real straight-edge guy, He seems very closed minded, and cuts me off when I try explaining my thought processes, or explaining what I mean to him. He jumped right into the idea of giving me a personality test, the MMPI 2. The results came back that I am a paranoid schizophrenic. 
 My problem is this;: He prescribed 'Seroquel' to me, and I am deathly afraid of taking brain-altering medication IF I don't need it. From the research I've done on the topic.. I am nothing close to what a real schizophrenic is. I do not think these theories are real, I do not see or hear things, I do not stay up worrying about them all the time. occasionally, like I said my imagination gets the better of me.. that is all. I do not think everyone in the world is out to get me; I simply think too much sometimes; let my imagination run wild. Which, the psychiatrist told me is a GOOD thing, to have a highly vivid imagination. He is confusing!
 I took his word for it.. and all of yesterday and all of today, I have been taking my prescribed doses of Seroquel. However, they make me SOOO irritable!  SOO tired!!! I have two small children to watch on a daily basis, and feeling irritable and tired enough to lay down alll day is not going to work for me. I realize that these drugs do that in the beginning and that things get better later, but I do still wonder if I REALLY need them. I am afraid that if I don't need them, and take them, I will be much worse off in the end, and that they have the potential to cause more problems than I started out with. Not that they WILL, but they could. 
  I do get depressed from time to time. Who doesn't? It's not daily, or weekly, or even monthly. It's maybe once every few months I feel hopeless. Again, I think I have valid reasons for feeling hopeless when we are short on cash, and need so much, such as work done on our vehicles, etc. Life can be rough; but I usually start each day with a positive outlook ; it is only on occasion, such as when I get bad news that puts us back, that I get emotional.
 I feel I am just an open, free spirit, who takes all realistically possible scenarios on our creation, etc. into consideration. I don't KNOW the truth about life, I don't KNOW if there are aliens, I don't KNOW where we came from. I just wonder and think. Is that so bad??  Am I a paranoid schizophrenic??? Should I continue taking the medication, or stay with the buspar anti-anxiety medication that was working for me to slow down my thoughts a tinge?