I feel that my 17 yr old daughter might be dealing with this.  According to all of the "prerequisites" in regards to diagnosis it seems that she fits almost all of them.  She doesn't finish anything she starts, she does things always spur of the moment and never thinks things thru only makes decisions based on her emotions or how she is feeling at the moment.  Has no concern for her siblings whether it hurts them or not.  This has been progressing ever since she was little not just recently.  as a preschooler she would put snow down her older brothers collar, as a teenager she doesn't care if she ruins her younger sisters clothes when she borrows them, nor does she concern herself with other peoples feelings.  She dresses provacatively and her father (my ex) doesn't seem to say anything to her about her attire when she is with him.  Recently she lied to me about going over to a friends house where they were going to go to the mall and she was to spend the night with her friend.  That wasn't what she did, she had a 21 year old male friend drive her over 4 hours away to meet a guy she had met on line thru facebook or myspace.  When I tried to call her dad in regards to this he never returned my call but called her instead.  
 Her myspace and face book accounts have all sorts of pictures of her with bikini's and underware on not a picture on there that she has more than that on.  When I blocked those address on my home router she would find web proxyies to get around the blocked sites, this became a battle every night with me blocking all the new web proxies she came up with I finally blocked the PC from the internet and she got into my bedroom and used my laptop, so I blocked that with some password protection so she tried her older brothers PC, however he already had password protection so she didn't get anywhere.  I got fed up with the internet issues that I had it all turned off at my house.  I am a computer tech/LAN Admin so I am fairly knowledgeable about the internet and have given them the talk many times about personal info and all that but to no avail in regards to her.  when I took her cell phone away for making calls to guys to hook up for sex, she used her younger sister's cell phone which I proceeded to take away from her as well.  You would think that that would put an end to things but nope her father bought her a Blackberry cell phone 2 weekes later with full internet and texting and access to Myspace and Facebook.   On her pages at those sites she put her new number on it and told people to call her.  here is a quote that she put on her web page " I gots the blackberry and I hold it over my muddahs head"  she is caucasion but wrote this in ghetto style.   I took the phone away and returned it to her father and told him under no uncertain terms was that device to ever find it's way back into my house.
 She lies to me, creates chaos in the household, loads me down daily with "Emergencies that I am supposed to fix" like I missed the bus for work, or I forgot my work uniform, or I left my MP3 player in Daddy's car, to which I now respond that those are her issues not mine and I am not taking charge of them.  So when that didn't work anymore she then proceeded to tell me that she thinks she might be pregnant, this she also told to my other Daughter's soccer coach at a benefit concert that my other daugther had made plans in advance to attend, and she decided at the last minute that her father could take her to the concert too.  When I asked her why she didn't tell her father, seeing as she was with him Saturday and Sunday, she told me that it was a discussion that should only be had with her mother.  In other words she doesn't need to get more attention from daddy because she has him wrapped around her little finger.  My younger daughter told me that at the benefit concert my older daughter proceeded to spend all the cash that Daddy had on him, which was his money for the weekend, the concert was on Saturday night.  On Sunday my daughter spent all of her paycheck on clothing and stuff for herself ( she hasn't done her own laundry in over 3 weeks),(she still hasn't given me any gas money to drive her to work like she had agreed to), she also wanted the really large Senoir portrait package for her senoir pictures I told her I only had $200 and that she needed to pay me the additional money for me to order the pictures, I refuse to order the pictures untill I have the money in hand.  
 She has relationships with guys (we used to call the the flavor of the week as it was someone different every week or so) now she will call a guy or make arrangements at school for them to pick her up to have sex and return her home before either I or my younger daughter get home.  If she doesn't do that then she comes home and just sleeps, no chores get done her room is a pigsty.  She has meds to take to include birth control and doesn't take them when she is supposed to but when she isn't feeling good or if her teeth hurt I am to take her to the Dr. or dentist right away.  Just like I was to produce a pregnancy test right away to see if she was pregnant.
 Add on top of this I have been dealing with Family Court in regards to custody,  she wants no supervision which she will get at her fathers house as he works evenings, and she has hoodwinked the law guardian into thinking that she is capable and intelligent enough to make that decision for herself.  Her Father has a CPS report against him already for lack of guardianship and neglect for proper food, shelter and or supervision.  She has been in counselling at Family and Childrens Services but so far none of that has seemed to help. 
 I would love to let her go as I am so frustrated and tired of the chaos that she has put on me but in her best interest that just isn't the right choice.  My youngest daughter is having to deal with fall out at school in regards to her sister's behavior, but her sister and her dad also pressure her to come live with her dad and try to get her to capitulate to their demands.  I have set up a safety net for her to be able to go to and to be able to call people to come and get her should they pressure her (see in court yesturday the law guardian let the court know that she doesn't want to go to her dad's).   If I could I just would take my youngest daughter and leave the area, I don't want to hurt either of my daughters but my youngest daughter doesn't need the problems that her sister and her dad put on her.
 So am wondering just what to do for my daughters.  Where can I get a diagnosis for my older daughter.
 signed 
-formydaughter