Hi,
 I am from a very abusive and traumatic past. I have been in a new Country for 18 months trying to give my daughters an opportunity to a better life from one of crime, murder and killings daily. I met someone 2 years ago and moved here, I stay alone still as I take things very slow, but other reasons too. My daughter after a long while sold up everything to join me, she now lives with me and her partner too. Now my partner Peter, decided to have a meeting after they were here 4 days, he raised his voice at them and told them that he loves me and no one is to ever hurt me again, yet he downs me and verbally shouts at me telling me I am weak and need to get tough...and they were to pull their weight, get a job and start paying rent. My kids are the most gentle souls. They were clearly upset as they are both adults, daughter is 26, her partner is 29. Then a week later while they were still trying to srot out work permits, he came over for dinner and the kids were watching tv, and I got into kitchen to tidy, and he exploded to my daughters partner, why he did not get up and do the dishes. He said they were untidy pigs who needed to keep the place tidy as it was his furniture adn stuff around. My daughters partner told him, his abusive raising of his voice has just lost his respect and he now has to earn it back. My partner told him he was arrogant and should go back where he came from. I am a non confrontational person and this killed me inside. My daughter and her partner got jobs quickly but could not earn because they had no papers, so they asked for advance just to pay the amount of rent my partner asked them too, as he said he was NOT supporting them. so their 2 weeks here were horrible. My partner then stayed away and said evil is in this house and I must prayer to get it out....yeah right.!!!  Now my daughter and her partners work permit ahve been declined and they both ahve to return home. I still have a year here and applied for residency which I should get in about 6 yo 9 months. My question is,,, do I return home with my daughter, she can't help me financially as she has nothing, she is starting again, like I am...but do I stick with her and return, she wants me to but said I want you to come home with me, but I can't help you with anything. so I will have to find a job, place to stay etc.... What on earth do I do.... I try so hard in life, I get major anxiety attacks and my partner tells me it's all in my head.