It’s 3:10AM on a Tuesday. I’m not quite sure who I’m writing to, or what I’m writing for. All I know is this: I am drunk, really drunk, and I don’t even like to drink. See, usually, alcohol gives me a headache. I don’t know—I get headaches often, regardless of alcohol. But, anyway, I decided to drink a lot of alcohol tonight. For your information, it was some bad, bad, terrible tasting whiskey. I think it was imported from Canada. It didn’t’ matter thought. I just drank it straight. I didn’t mix it with Coke or Pepsi or whatever. I just drank it straight. Maybe I drank it to forget about ****. Or maybe I drank it to ease the pain. I guess you can fill in any cliché bull **** you want. The truth is that I drank because I have nothing else to do. 
I am convinced I am living with a terminal disease. But this belief isn’t just a hunch, or some strange imaginational fantasy. I feel like absolute **** every day, and I have the physical complaints to back it up. Nevertheless, I understand no one cares (I wouldn’t expect anyone to), and I’ve been to the doctor’s office numerous times to back up my claim. But whatever. It’s a struggle to get out of bed and just live a halfway normal life. 
I don’t  want you readers, though, to get the wrong impression. See, usually when you read about someone complaining about **** like this, you think of some spoiled brat who has had everything brought and served to him on a silver plate. Not me though: I’ve had one of the worst childhood’s imaginable: monetarily, and socially. It is what it is, though. I don’t want any one’s sympathy or whatever. I just wish I could feel better. But I’m not about to put some crazy drug into my system or whatever, **** that.
I go to college. I’m not the smartest person, but I know right from wrong. I try to live a life governed by rules of what I perceive to be great moral conduct. But I still feel like ****. Every day. I wish I could feel better. I wish my heart didn’t beat out of my chest. I wish I could sleep at night. 
Like I said, this is a pure rant. I know there are probably some people who are reading this who are laughing. And maybe there are some people who are reading this who are sad. All I know is this: This is real. This is me. This is not a façade. This is not make believe. This is, more or less, my heart and soul. These are the things I think about when I cannot sleep. I just figure maybe it is a little bit healthier to get them out on paper. 
  I haven’t represented myself very well here with my words. That is  because this was a bit of free association writing. I don’t know what I could really say. I don’t know what I could do. I am willing to take any advice I can get. I am a college student, who has a perceived “bright future”, and yet, I am left believing that I am completely lost within my own mind, and I have no idea what I am doing or why I feel the way I feel. Sometimes I am scared that I may be schizophrenic or a hypochondriac, and sometimes I think I should just “suck it up”, and do what the doctors tell me. Please, any advice will be helpful.