Before I really start I have a couple of disclaimers:  1, this is pretty long.. in fact I'm apparently exceeding the character limit, so I'll have to split my post into post and response, so if you read through it all, thank you. 2. I've been doing a LOT of reading on this topic over the last few days, before posting, so I understand that there is a whole range of reactions to the behaviors I will describe (some insisting that it's totally normal, and having an issue with them must mean I'm jealous --- to --- that's just wrong, she needs help, and everywhere in between). 3. I also want to point out that I do not think that any of the behaviors I will describe mean that something deviant is in fact going on in my situation, NOR that similar behaviors with other fathers & daughters means that those are deviant relationships (just wanted to acknowledge the complaints I've read from some angry fathers). 4. I studied developmental psychology for my bachelor's, and I also worked for 2 years as a teaching assistant for a Child Development class at my university.  I keep up on things, do research, etc.  I'm not a professional, but I do try to stay educated on these things, so I feel like my opinions are generally pretty informed. 5. Keep in mind, despite the fact that I'm writing about problem behaviors with my eventually-stepdaughter, I am very close with her. I really enjoy spending "girls time" with her, and quite often she won't want to go do things alone with her dad anymore, unless my son and I are also going.  BF is great with my son as well, and we are a very close-knit family.
 Background:
 I have been with my boyfriend for just over 3 years.  My 7yr old son and I moved in with my boyfriend and his 11 year old daughter 1 year ago. We each have 50% custody of our children, though because we can both work from home, we usually both end up with more time than that while the other parent works during their time. A lot of adjustments have been made along the way (even in the year prior because we would stay over a lot, even though we weren't living together). I realize that adjustments are always needed in blended families. However, the bottom line in our family is: unless something is really a serious issue, the biological parent gets final say when there is a difference of opinion.  For example, even though it's not always great, I sometimes read to my son for an hour before bed, even if it means him not going to *sleep* till 9:30.  I can't really push the time earlier because of our daily schedules, which includes a lot of driving because of where my son goes to school right now (long story, not relevant right now). BF doesn't think it's a great idea, but knows that it's my decision. 
 In the past couple of years, once I started staying over, and especially when I moved in, we have had some issues with BF's daughter's sleeping patterns.  She used to always insist on sleeping in bed with him. He claimed that she could sleep alone if he told her to, but that he just liked having her in bed with him-- he slept better knowing she was right there, and safe.  I asked him to not have her sleep in bed with us because I saw that time as private time for me with him, since day-time is usually devoted to the kids.  It proved problematic. She really fought sleeping alone, and he was defensive and didn't like seeing her unhappy. I would get frustrated at being interrupted while starting to be romantic because she didn't want to sleep in her own room at midnight. It's been a long hard road, but finally she usually sleeps alone, but at least once or twice a month, will cry about it, requiring us to continually check on her till almost 2 in the morning. 
 There have been issues in the past where I've been frustrated that he's allowed her to act like a baby half the time with him (shirking responsibility, not having to clean up after herself, getting her way on silly things b/c of pouting, him sleeping with her because she doesn't want to sleep alone, etc, but get away with adult-like things (staying up past midnight often, joining in our inside-jokes at my expense, getting her over-the-top, adult-level gifts--like things from tiffany's, etc.). He knows it upsets me, and if I bring it up, he usually gets very angry and extremely defensive at times, but has slowly made some changes, despite his initial resistance. Not everything has changed, but most things are a lot better. 
 She has begun to go through puberty starting with breast buds about 2 years ago, and now is developed enough to see breasts developing even beneath her bra, in a regular t-shirt. She has started to get a very slightly more curvy build, but has not started her period yet.  However, physically, she is very tiny. In fact, my 7 year old might be taller than her now.. it's very close. BF is just barely below average height, and her mom is under 5', so I'm guessing she'll be under 5 feet at adult height too.  She is little, so she indulges in being "babied" by her daddy.  She insists on him carrying her to bed or from the car if she's tired.  Still ***** her thumb unconsciously while sleeping sometimes, and even awake once, recently while she was very sick. She still talks in a baby voice very often, pouts and cries if things don't go her way, etc. etc.  However, this is only about 25% of the time. The rest of the time, she acts extremely mature for her age, hanging out easily with 14-15 year olds and not feeling out of place, and is extremely intelligent. She confides in me quite a bit, and has recently started hitting the phase of almost liking a boy in her class (or at least enjoying that he appears to like her), but feels like she's not supposed to like boys yet, so she didn't tell her mom, and only after a lot of convincing did she let me tell her dad.  
 ... more....