ok so im a 15 yr old girl..im in high school....i think i have a problem with older guys...im just attracted to older guys more than guys my own age...is this a bad thing??? this all started when i was 14 i started seeing this 18 yr old and id sneak out just to see him and he wuld drive like an hour just to see me and we started getting close and then he wanted sex and i wuldnt give him that so then we kinda drifted apart......then i started dating a 16 yr old ( thats a lil better haha) then he cheated on me and it was just a confusing mess...so then i was single for a long time and started having alot of one night stands.... then i started meeting guys on the internet....i met this 19-yr old guy on there and he lived a couple hrs away...and we started talking alot and kept getting closer then we decided to meet...when we met it went really well but we got drunk together and i ended up having sex with him then i cried when he left...call me crazy haha and it was the first nite of seeing eachother but i was drunk....he still talked to me after that and then we started dating...we dated for a few months and i seriusly fell in love with him!!! he broke my heart twice....i think he was just worried about the age thing.....age is just a number to me...and hes moving away this summer...i miss him alot!! but i know i can do better than him ( hes a stoner )....
 guys who are my age are just so immature and retarded and dont understand....so i just dont know why im soo attracted to older guys....i dont if its a bad thing...and i cant tell my parents cuz idk what they wuld say.....
 i think i like older guys because they actually want to have sumthing serius and not just play around ...well sum of them anyways...and sumtimes i feel like the older guy im with is using me....well anyways shuld i try to stay away from older guys??? ...i dont know if i can tho i feel so right with guys like 5 yrs older than me....im only 15 and i need advice on this really bad!!!!! help me....do they just want sex from me??? and how do i know if they actually like me??? ....i feel like an obsessed freak!!!....if it is right to like older guys then how wuld i tell my parents.....i always have to sneak around them and LIE!!!! im so guilty....