I have been with my husband, J, for nearly three years. We have an 8mo old son whom we both adore. I have always known J has had a difficult time controlling and understanding his emotions. We had never been able to have an argument without him going up in arms and castrophizing the situation to where he convinced himself that our relationship was over. I have always asked him to seek a counselor and get into anger management. Up until now the reason for him not addressing his temper was due to a lack of money/insurance. Now that we have it he did ask his doctor about his temper and was prescribed Wellbutrin, which has seemed to help a bit, less explosive. But when I asked if he was referred to a counselor he lied and said his Dr. would call him back with a referral. That was 6mo ago. J does most of the driving and he gets road rage extremely easily as he feels everyone is slighting him. When my son and I are in the car and he drives aggressively I meekly ask him to slow down and be careful because I don;t want our son to get hurt, like in an accident or something, especially since we have so much snow now.J HATES that I suggest this. I had refused to get out of the car after one of these incidents because i didn';t feel comfortable leaving our son with J when was so mad. Please understand that I never think that J would PURPOSELY hurt our son, I am concerned about him getting hurt as a residule outcome from my husband's temper. When we arrived back home he swore at me, said he'd punch me in the face if I ever said that he would hurt our son again. I calmly took our son to my parent's house where we stayed for two days. I came back to our apartment alone to change clothes to go to work. He was still extremely upsat, said he was going to my parent's house to get our son and take him to california, he grabbed my very hard and shook me. I was flustered didn't want anything t happen at my parent's house and called the cops. When being interviewed by the police I realized they were suggesting that this was a form of domestic violence. Because I am sympathetic to J's emotional situation due to the way he was raised (his dad has an extremely explosive temper) I did not want to press charges or anything when I realized he left bruises where he grabbed me. But then I felt like they thought I was in denial. My son and I stayed at my folks; house another day until J left to go to California. All's I have asked him to do is get counselling, but instead he's telling everyone I just won;t let him see his son. I Want him to see our son! I'm just concerned about the behavior he's modelling and how his actions are going to change over time if he doesn't atke care of it now. Whe I came back home I found all our wedding pics gone, my wedding ring is gone, and he told my family he has filed for divorce. I have no idea what to do. Please help.