Hi, I've read a lot of threads and the advice is helpful. I figured I'd try a go.
 For eleven years we've been married and we have two children 11 and 5. I love my wife. I love my family. Our kids are tough right now. They fight a lot. Working on that too... proactive parenting. Work in progress... 
 About three months ago my wife asked for a separation. She was tired of me being 'checked out.' I refused, and begged for a chance and went to our basement and have been living there ever since. I told her that I had the wrong priorities and I'll focus on the house instead of work. I don't agree with the assessment, but how does one argue with it... so I went.
 I try to check in with her, am I doing ok? How's it going, but often it appears I can't make progress. It's like when I ask, she digs out everything I did wrong over the past year. 
 To explain more... I'm proud of my careerl. Make enough to put us in the top 3% (not 1%!), but more importantly I like my job and my work/life balance. I make sure I am home at 5 to spend time with the kids. Somedays it would be 5.15... and the rare day I'd stay late. I make the kids their lunches, except now our oldest makes his own lunch. I clean the kitchen each day. And four days of the week I take my kids to school. I also share in making dinner. 
 What I didn't do was plan the vacations. Or schedule the summer camps. I just never thought of that. I thought I was doing my share as a partner. 
 Except... once every other week, I'd miss a dish or once a week I wouldn't clean the kitchen. And it was like the world was ending. How awful I am. That I couldn't even get home on time. That our son could clean the dishes better. That she was tired of taking care of 3 children. 
 That I need to learn to live on my own. 
 But when she's happy, she's amazing. It's worth the grief. Except now I'm in the basement. She wants me to learn to live alone. This morning it was how can a grown man not have a laundry basket. And that is why she doesn't want to be with me. I usually get defensive... but lately advice has told me to say, "I can see how you might feel that way, but I don't need one..."
 Anyhow, I love my kids. I love her. But I don't see an end in sight. She says she wants space... so should I give her space? Move out? When do I see the kids I love? I'd like to think that once I did, she'd notice everything I did... but it seems so childish. 
 We're seeing a therapist... but it's irregular. I called and asked to see one regulary. But in the mean time... should I stay in the basement? Should I get a one bedroom apt nearby and ask to come to dinner on Fridays and spend the weekend there? It pains me so much to think of that. 
 I can't imagine going the full swing... selling the house... getting 2 3 bedroom apts. Maybe I'm naïve but I holdout hope. 
 I'm just trying so hard to keep us together. When I asked her if she's trying... her answer was, "you're still here, aren't you?"
 any advice?