When I was 13, my brother sexually abused me on Christmas Eve. It wasn't meant to be violent or anything and it was just one incident. My parents weren't around and my brother (who was 15 at the time) started touching me under my underwear, which I was cautious about although there was no malicious intent. I was somewhat okay with it until I told my brother I felt like I had to go to the bathroom, to which he responded "No you don't. You just think you do." And I insisted that I had to and I went into the bathroom and closed the door. What scared me was when he walked in and knelt on the floor in front of me and started fingering me and I told him to leave because I had to urinate and he kept insisting that he didn't until I screamed at him to leave, which he did. 
 It was an isolated event, but he had been physically abusing me since I was in first grade. He'd hit me and kick me until I had bruises. He'd then drag me down the hall to my room and tell me not to leave and he'd come make it up to me within an hour by making me lunch to try to console me so I wouldn't still be crying when mom and dad came home from work. He'd also deliver a few death threats every now and then and when I'd try to tell mom and dad, they'd accuse me of lying because my brother supposedly "doesn't lie".
 Anyway, I found that through high school, any jokes about incest or abuse made me uncomfortable. I hated everything to do with sex. If I ever tried to finger myself for pleasure, it would turn me off because I'd immediately remember the isolated incident. I did tell someone about it the following year and it turned into a whole mess with child services coming over and my parents eventually got me to lie and say nothing happened and I lied, which I was chided for, but I still sometimes regret saying it was all a lie. 
 Even more recently, I've developed a strange fetish - I like watching movies and reading books about torture. I like reading about/viewing a victim suffering and being threatened. From watching a movie with a character being threatened with a gun at his head to straight up sick mutilation scenes, I get aroused because of the helplessness of the victim. I find myself not identifying with the victim, but rather liking watching them hurt. Is this possibly because I'm looking for a chance to be the one in control? I would never victimize anyone, but I love watching it on TV. Weird?
 One last thing - I have a sexual partner now and we find it hard to have sex because I can't relax any of my vaginal muscles. It's like they're permanently tense - and fingering me just makes it worse because I know that makes me tense. He knows that I've been abused. He was sexually abused constantly, too, but at a much younger age so he's not as affected as I am. I don't know if my tenseness has to do with the instance of abuse - I've also never been able to orgasm - I never tried before I reached my teen years so I don't know if it would've been different before what my brother did. Do you think it's related? 
 Please offer any opinions on any of this if possible. I really hate myself sometimes because I feel like I'm just weird and alienated.