Hey girls, I'm not sure how many of you remember me, but I made quite the impression in the womans forum 2 years ago when I found out I was pregnant, but my boyfriend, James, at the time was very drunk and abusive........
Okay, So I had my daughter, Cadence on my 21st birthday, June of 2006 and I left him a week before last Xmas... Right about now, on this date exactly was when I found out i was pregnant. It was the most exciting, horrific, dramatic and blessed time of my life. Not one moment of my pregnancy was a complete happy feeling. Between curling up and sleeping with my ears plugged and locking myself in the bathroom and closet, I was holding my stomache thinking of my little girl... I cant stop thinking about those nights of pain i went through. I can't stop thinking about the times that I spend screaming, the times i spent being locked inside the car while he pummeled my face and punched my stomache. i cant stop thinking about those nights that I was out walking the neighborhool in the middle of the night because I would rather exhaust myself than be inside hearing his grunting noises and lifely threatning talk....
Even though its been nearly a year since i left him, i can't let go. this time of year is especially hard.... I love my little girl shes so important to me. It makes me so angry and makes me dispise her father when he says that he loves her and when he sees her he talks about all the neat things they did and what not when in reality, when he found out she was a girl on Dec. 18 2005, he said in the ultrasound room, "i dont want it, get an abortion. u gave me a girl" and beat me in the car all the way home while i clinched onto the chrochet pink blanket the nurse gave me. It makes me sick. And 2 weeks before I gave birth, he hit me in the head wiht a Jack Daniels bottle, and served time in jail... (been sober ever since, but dosnt make a difference to me).
This is getting pretty long, but I'm having serious troubles. 
Girls, I don';t wanna hear baggering or trolling, just talk to me. Its hard enough dealing with this stuff.
Thanks, 
Formerly, MissJenni