I have been married for 20 years, great marriage over all, some arguments along the way, but who doesn't have them? He is very intelligent, very supportive, caring, loving, fun to be with, and I love him very much.
 My daughter, and granddaughters (15 and 12 at the time) moved in with us a year ago. She was in her last year of College and was not working. My husband has been frustrated, and bothered by the fact that the girls fight a lot, don't respect him or me, keep their room messy, don't want to clean, pick up after themselves...etc. My daughter would not help me and just cleaned her room. I've been taking the girls to and back from the bus stop on certain days when she was in school, and also to taking them to school activities or games. My husband complained about the cost of gas, and how I was becoming a personal "limo driver" for the girls. He always said my daughter was taking advantage of me. We did not ask her to pay rent or utilities, she wasn't working. She bought "groceries" for the girls, which consisted mostly on snacks, and paid her bills using money she had in her savings from her previous work.
 Then my daughter started telling me every little things about how he would complain about her or the girls and then, he would complain to me...so I got caught in the middle. I would even lie to defend my daughter and granddaughters...and that was my mistake, and he knew it all along.
 Slowly but surely, things were getting worse and worse.
 In February my husband was put on furlough because of budget cuts. Financially things started getting worse. My husband has been applying to every job posting he finds, anywhere in the US and even outside the US. So far nothing has happened, except things getting worse in the house.
 I tried so many times to tell my daughter about how she needed to understand that my husband and I are in a lot of financial stress, and to be a little more sympathetic towards him and the situation we are in. That she needed to appreciate all he has done for her an the girls...
 Then the worst happened... last week my daughter needed to use my car (hers was being repaired,) she met with a friend to exchange papers for their last college exam. As much as I begged her not to take too long, she came back 4 hours later. I lied for her again, I had told my husband she was running errands. He called her  behind my back, and told her to come home immediately. She came home, slammed the keys on the kitchen counter, and told him..."here are the keys for your precious car."  My husband got up and started walking towards her, pointing his finger as he was talking. My daughter, raised her voice, he raised his voice, then she said "Don't point your finger at me. You want to hit me? Go ahead, you wouldn't be the first one."  I yelled at him to stop. He backed away, and she said "I didn't think so..." 
 Next morning at 6:15 AM, my daughter was going to take her oldest daughter to school and asked me for the car keys. My husband hid them, so I went to the room to ask him, he said he wasn't going to let her drive the car, and that he was going to take them...I got mad, I screamed and yelled at him, which I should have never done, and I made matters worse....I did everything wrong out of anger, and trying again to defend my daughter!
  He followed me out of the room. He started telling my daughter that he wasn't going to let her use the car because she had been disrespectful the night before, and wasn't going to tolerate being disrespected in his own house. She started screaming at him, my granddaughter screamed at him, and then he snapped. He punched my daughter in the face. I couldn't stop what happened, but I grabbed by him by his neck  chain and pulled him back. I was in shock. My daughter called the police and he was taken to jail, where spent 3 days.
 He regrets what happened, he is very sorry, and apologetic, he says he blacked out completely by all the yelling and disrespect that has been going on for the past year. This is now possibly costing him his job, and any future government job, which requires clearance. I don't know what will happen in court. All this is going to cost us money, when my husband is out of a job.
 My husband is not a violent person, he has never, ever even lifted a finger at me in 20 years, I know he loves me and I love him back.  I know I was very wrong for not backing him up during the past year, and I just defended my daughter day in and day out. My daughter says she didn't disrespect him or provoke the situation. Anything I say is wrong, she blames me for a lot of things. She wants me to divorce him and go on with my life. She also said that if I get back together with him, I have lost her and the girls. Again, I am caught in the middle and asked to choose.
 I just can't think right anymore. I love my daughter. I know that what my husband did was very wrong, and unforgivable, but I can't take it back. I thought about suicide about 4 days ago. I know it's not the answer, but the incident just keeps playing over and over in my head...non stop, and I can't even sleep well, I can't deal with it. 
 To what point am I to pay for what happened?  Is divorce the right solution? He is not allowed to come to his own house. I can't sit and talk about all of this with him, my daughter thinks that if I do that I am betraying her as a Mother. He keeps texting me saying he loves me, and no matter what happens he wants to spend the rest of his life with me.  
 I am lost, confused and can't think about what I can or should do, except cry all day and not eat at all. I need help and don't know what to do or where to go...