This is actually a unknown issue..
 My father is aged about 52 years..he has slim and short figure..his day starts at 9:00am and retires to bed at 11:45 pm and almost walks with a heavy suitcase for atleast 4 kms everyday.because he is in marketing field...he has not had even common complaints on his health like headache,pain.so......he is addicted to tobacco..
 but there is an problem..i am not able to diagnose or understand the problem .to exactly tell u the situation..let me describe it first..
 It happens very rare once in few years..however about this period.somwhere in march or may or june..it is summer here in india...it happened four years before....he did not sleep for almost 40 nights and 40 days..altogether he would had napped for around 20hrs intermittently in 40 days..he keeps walking up and down...no pain..but he feels discomfort in stomach..no priking sensation..no pain..but discomfort in stomach causes him to behave odd.. he sometimes feel like and virtual jumps to get relieved from discomfort.
 During this 40 days he neglects doctor medicines if any given at night..shows resistance to take medication.especially sleeping pills....he visits a temple in south and then on in a few days it becomes fine..
last visit the person near the temple turned to be a fraud and was just charging us for xyz..a few thousand rupees..we made my father stop going there..he became alright....some **** calimed it black magic
 just few days back he has again started to show such odd behaviour..and it is difficult for me to digest such kind of problem exist..but there is a doubt whether it is done purposefully or it is a genuine case of any problem...he just wakes up at night and starts walking and keeps walking up and down but it is not night walking..he feels disconfort in stomach...he wakes up very suddenly and keeps walking..everything is normal in the day...because of sleepless nights he speaks very pitiful and sometimes very tough...he is also a person with supersttition....so avoids taking medication feeling that sleeping pills may make him sleep for lifelong....he avoids eating potatoes,,,payaya..because he feels it started because he had it at that time..it starts with an 2-3 hrs of sleepless night and gradually increases to total sleepless night...generally lasts 15-40 days...
 he is having acidity and gastric problems..takes a spoon of antiflatuant,antacid tonic or ENO(antacid)..everyday and during issues like this..he feels that gives a bit relief but it is temporary..Last time it happened he hardly slept and this time he sleeps atleast for some time say 2 or 4 hrs..and again just wakes up suddenly and makes everybody panic!! ...i feel he is a bit mentally disturbed but behaves very normal yet abnormal..he is forced to think much because of sleepless nights!!
 Doctors have been prescribing antacids and ALPARAX SR...but he resists it..we even tried mixing the medicine without his knowlege in tea..but he came to know..so stopped drinking tea at homee..would go to a tea shop to drink until that period....is it any kind of genuine problem or a psychological problem or stress related issue or any disease or whatever???
 Even when i am typing this ...he just went to terrace and started walking ,sometimes joggs,jumps making it very odd....worst thing is he sometimes or maytimes wants somebody to accompany him in his walk ..and thus making others health worsen....
 Kindly advise ....ASAP..or he will spend sleepless nights..
 I hope i have been able to provide as much as information as i could...would be grateful if anybody could reply to it..Hoping for a positive response..
 Thanks
GNM