I am 15 years old in 10th grade in an IB (International Bachelorette) league school. Next year my mom wants me to do the full IB Diploma but know I don’t think I can do it because my Grades have been so bad this term and last term. So here’s what’s been happening lately. 
 Just like a lot of people; Today I came up with a conclusion that I am depressed I was looking around the web for symptoms and taking quizzes and it seems I’m pretty likely to have depression. The thing is I don't know why and how to deal with it. I don't really get mad at school or dance class or any other situation. I usually get mad at home. I am usually holding something inside of me and the littlest thing sets me off. When I try talking to my mother she gives me a lecture on how there are people less fortunate than me and how all I have to do is go to school and she asks nothing more of me and how she strives to provide the best education possible for me and how your crazy to even say you’re thinking about suicide and how there are people on the streets who are much more unfortunate. The thing is though I know all that. I know what she’s done for me I know what she does for me. I am just really upset a lot of the time and I don’t know why and when I tell her this she just yells “What are you upset about!” You have nothing to be upset about! My mom never takes my feelings seriously. I know how fortunate I am but for some reason I get very upset and I get very very very mad extremely mad and I just loose it. I feel like I don’t care about anything anymore or I don’t want to do anything anymore. I feel hopeless and sometime I feel the world is hopeless and bad. My mom is always getting upset about my grades and that just adds to the sadness and the bitter anger. For some reasons I’m tearful and cry at night or in the bathroom before school. My eating has been changing and I have been losing weight but I think that is related to my Anemia. I feel restless, agitated, and worthless; I have fatigue and headaches that I never used to have. I lack motivation, enthusiasm, I can’t concentrate in class and lastly I guess I feel suicidal. Yesterday I took out a bunch of pills in my cabinet and put them on a napkin I got some water out to swallow them and some alcohol to drown them down and I just stared at it knowing I just couldn’t do it. My biggest fears about committing suicide is what if it doesn’t work and I don’t die and end up in the hospital and then everything just gets even worse.  My other fear is that what happens after I die. Will I go to hell if I commit suicide, or heaven, what will heaven be like? Will I like it? Is there heaven or hell? What if I get reincarnated back onto this miserable earth? If I knew that I would die and if I knew I would go someplace reasonable when I commit suicide I would do it. 
 I obviously I need help because I am completely screwed up but I don’t know what do. I am on my third therapist and I hate therapy I don’t like talking to a stranger about my problems because I know she can’t help. She’s not me! My mom says I haven’t changed with the therapy and now she is just upset. I keep telling her I don’t want to go! Know I am also in some group at the clinic with other people but I never share any of my problems with them so therapy is out of the question I just don’t think they can help me. I am thinking f anti – depressants but I would have to go through my mom to get them and she probably wouldn’t by them for me she would think I was being ridiculous.  I have no other solutions to my problem and I really want some. I am totally and completely serious because I wouldn’t be writing this 700 word essay just for the hell of it so I would really appreciate answers. 
Thanks a lot