My 24 yo daughter has recently been dxed with BPD. She (not surprisingly) did not take this dx very well...insisting she is simply "massively depressed" and cannot get better. I have been reading a ton of lliterature about this disorder and she fits nearly all the criteria for dx, other than promiscuity and drug abuse. She is married and her husband is a med student, so he is actually the one who first really noticed it, and in a session with her psych doc brought it up. The psych doc agreed and has been trying to get her depression under some kind of control but she insists she is resistant to any and all anti depressants. Currently (as of last night) I am on her "hit list" meaning she was in a bad mood (becasue she saw a wedding invite from an old friend on my desk and she saw that this girl had a bigger diamond ring that hers and that she has also had a nose job)...so K began the downward cycle from being just fine into depression to where she was lying on my bed, bawling over this. I went in and said "I am sorry you feel so bad" and walked out. In a few minutes she was up, angrily stuffing her things into her purse and telling her hubby "We are SO out of here"...mad at ME for not fussing her and making it all be OK. Kind of typical BPD behavior. I am sick of it, personally, and I don't put up with it either. Her poor hubby, he is beside himself as she cannot function, cannot work and barely can handle life. Anybody who is prettier, smarter, thinner, (get my drift?) than her is an instant enemy to her. Everything is black or white, She either hates or loves me..there is no gray in her life. I see her getting worse and worse. Her p-doc has suggetsed inpatient care and while he hubby is totally on board with this she feels he is abandoning her (again, BPD thinking). How do others of you handle BPD kids, whether adults or kids living with you? I must add that I also work PT and have a very sick Hubby who had a liver TP 2 years ago who is currently on Inteferon TX for  HepC, so he is one sick guy. (It's very similar to chemo and he's been on this over a year with a half year to go still, so I do have a few pretty big stressors in my life already). I truly believe that K can be well, she is smart, gorgeous and funny, when she so chooses. She an also be a huge pain the  A$$ when she so chooses. We just never know who is going to show up on a given day. Any help--medication-wise and therapy wise woulde be greatly appreciated!
Liz