I was abused when I was 13 years of age, by a man who was friend's with my dad since childhood. First, this is also to aware people about how you cannot trust everyone. I used to consider this man like an uncle. This incident took place in the summer, and it practically ruined a big part of my life! I had to deal with depression, high anxiety, sexual indecision, failed relationships, failed relationship with my parents, anger, alcoholism, drug addiction, problems with school, problems with self-esteem, and lot's of mental problems that caused me to always think that people were always criticizing me. It was hard to me to deal with all theses problems, and always would lean on my friends as I never had told my parents or the police about it. Well, I took the iniciative now, to go and tell both parties, and I'm dealing the way I should have a long time ago! And trust me, You, if you have been a victim of sexual abuse, Go see the police, tell your parents, do something about it, because people who do things like that, have no consideration for others, and they use and abuse of everyone around them! You cannot be part of something like that, and have to go and fight against a person, most likely known as a creep, a low life person like that! 
 I honestly researched alot about sexual abuse, and tried to console myself into, "I can deal with it" type of idea. When I now, know, being 21, that I should have dealt with this a long time ago. And also, don't feel ashame to go and tell people who love you, they are the ones who will help you! Don't let something horrible like this destroy your life. You can be a stronger person by letting people help you! 
 I am so happy my parents know about this, they deserved to know. This man works with my parents ATM, and I feel terrible I allowed this man to talk to my parents in the past. But now, Tomorrow, this man will be interviewed by the police, and I am hoping justice will be done! I hope he pays for everything he made me go through! 
 I basicly dealt with this all by myself, I did become a stronger person, but I want you, who have or is still being abused, to go and do something about it! You can be a better person, and you can succeed in your life. Let the doors open by themselves, and have that door, the one who caused you pain, to be shut for eternity, and that the person who remains inside that room, feels the pain it caused you. And now you can move on with her life, while they're there, paying for what they have done. Anyone who has desire to have sex with a child, is a pathetic, non-sense, idiotic person! Have justice in yourself to make justice in this world, and stop child sex abuse in the world. 
 Thank you. 
If you have concerns, don't hesitate to message me. I would be more than happy to help you do what's the best for you, as I am doing for myself ATM.