I'm a 29 year old well adjusted, smart, successful female in all aspects of my life except in relationships.  I have physical intimacy issues.  The idea of be in love and have a health sexual relationship with a guy is something I desire but I feel unbelievable uncomfortable being intimate.  Not with kissing, ect once the clothes come off I just want to run away.  I have small breasts and for a long time I thought is was just insecurity with my body but now I am worried that it is more.
 I have a brother who is 3 years older than I am and when I was young (somewhere between 5 and 8) there was a short period (prob less than a month) where he would convince me to give him a blow job.  I can't remember how often it occurred but I remember after it happened a few time I almost looked forward to it or something...  maybe because I looked up to him, maybe the idea of doing something I knew I shouldn't, who knows.  
 Anyway, I know I was young enough that I didn’t know about sex because I remember I was worried that I could get pregnant... Anyway, my parent must have started to suspect something because one day they pulled us aside and questioned us.  We denied it and that was the end of it.  It never happened again and it has never been spoke of.
 I've never "repressed" this, I always knew it happened but to be honest I have never even thought of it until recently, mainly because I want to find a meaningful relationship and don't know if I can.  I know that I was manipulated, he was 3 years older and I knew what we were doing was wrong (but not how wrong) so I'm sure he knew even more that it was wrong but I'm not sure if qualifies as abuse because it seems that abuse implies malicious intent.  My question is, even if this doesn't qualify as "abuse" could this small little thing that happen over 20 years ago be the source of all my issues?  As I said, I've known that I've have had intimacy problems for a long time but I never that that it could be related to this experience until recently.  Thanks!