Hi. I am so tired of hearing from doctors that all my concerns are things that every woman deals with, every woman suffers, or that I am too young for that, or that theres nothing wrong. I have been basically begging my gyno for years to do hysterectomy, but they say theres nothing wrong, and most lately, not enough wrong to remove it. Since I have had my tubes tied, 13 years ago at age 29, my issues have increasingly become worse. It all started with my periods becoming irregular. I was always very regular at 27 day cycles, I could mark it on the calander and know exactly what day my period would start prior to my tubes getting tied. After, it would be a day or so late, or a day or so early, not really a big deal at first. What was the big deal is that my cramps and body aches became much worse. I hadn't had cramps that bad since I was a teenager and just starting my cycles. Also, I started having more and more issues with bladder control. Anyway, I told my gynos, they said "theres nothing wrong with your uterus" and "you're too young for that". I kept insisting over next few years, trying new doctors after I felt the ones I had seen were no longer even listening to me. Over that time, I had a some tell me that I had "some ovaian cysts, but they are small and its normal, they will go away on thier own". About 3-4 years ago or so, I started getting migraines along with my cycle, my moods became more intense, in particular, my anger, frustration and hopelessness. Also, as the years have gone by, my menstral symptoms continued to become more intense and my cycle more irregular. I found a Nurse Practicioner who agreed that I no longer needed my uterus after she found thickening of the lining, determined that I possibly have endometriosis and referred me to a surgeon who told me "its not thick enough to warrant any surgery, take birth control pills". I told her, I cannot take BC, it causes me to become extremely dizzy, plus I was well over 30 and a smoker at this time. She insisted I try a progesterone only BC. Still made me dizzy, so I quit taking them and quit seeing that practice. About 2 years ago, this all started affecting my work. I would call in sick for days around my cycle, because the pain was so bad, because I felt so horrid, or from the migraines, or combination of. Also, in past 5-7 years, I have been diagnosed with Hypothyroid and diabetes, type 2. So some of the symptoms I was experiencing were blamed on the thyroid or diabetes. I began having my regular doctor take over all of my health issues, my theory is that all of these things are connected to each other and affecting each other, so why not have one doctor treat it all at the same time? Well, no, not really a good plan. Primary care physician really can't fully treat all the issues, so it is probably best to see seperate specialists, I understand this now. OK, so I told my regular doctor about my "depression" which took me a while to figure out thats what it was. I always thought depression meant you wanted to commit suicide. I wanted to commit homocide. Other people irritated me so bad, and I was not liking how I felt 3 out of 4 weeks every month. She started me on anti-depressant, and when it wasnt strong enough to quite control my anger, anxiety and bursting into tears for no reason, she referred me to a psychiatrist. Both my psychiatrist and primary care agree now that I am over 40, some of my symptoms are perimenopause, and some of my other conditions are affected by it. So now, I am being treated for ADD, depression, anxiety, hypothyroid, diabetes, high blood pressure, cholesterol, migraines and i forget what else. I have a hard time falling asleep and don't want to wake up in the morning. My migraines have kept me home from work for up to a week at a time, and most recently I have not had a real period in 45 days. I had 1 day of spotting 31 days ago (dark brown and gross), and have been pretty much miserable since then. My body acts as though I am about to begin or I am having my cycle, but no blood. My lower/mid back is killing me, have really bad menstral cramps, migraine with neck pain, nausea (like when I was pregnant), tender breasts, extreme irritability, lack of concentration, ehausted, but can't fall asleep, hard to wake up in the morning, etc. Oh, I forgot to mention, my nearly constant "personal summer", I can't really call it hot flashes, because theres nothing flashy about it, it's just uncomfortably hot most of the time (rare occasions, usually when I start my period, i get chills, which I have today, but still no period). If this is all "what every woman goes thru" and "completely normal", how do you all put up with this?? My bosses aren't happy about my missed time, and I am not happy about the way I feel, even more, I cannot believe that there is no relief. Why don't my doctors seems to care?