I mentioned to my husband about getting a job and he started saying that I was gonna get a job with pervs and was gonna leave him and all that.  We need the help financially, my husband only makes about 1,600 a month the absolute most.  Getting paid only every two weeks.  We have to pay rent, car payment, phone bill, diapers, wipes, grocerys, gas bill, gas to go back and forth to work,  just the everyday things like.  We get food stamps of 76 dollars a month.  I mentioned that I wanted a job bc we need the extra money bc we have to borrow money from his friends bc we can't buy everything we need and we have to borrow from his mom, I told him it wasn't his mom's place to continue to take care of us every week and that I was tired that we had to borrow from people that if I got a job it would help that maybe I could buywhat his check can't, and he tells me it's none of my business what he borrows or what he does, that I shouldn't even care.  That if I get a job all I'm going to do is waste my money, that it's not going to help us.  I'm autistic and I don't communicate with people very well, like I don't talk very much and don't carry on conversations and stuff like that.  And he tells me that I'm not gonna find or have anything bc I don't have a education(I dropped out in 9th grade, I was two years behind in school bc of being held back and failing a grade) and that my communication skills suck that I should get on disability.  He just makes me feel so low I guess you could call it.  He doesn't support me in anything I want to do.  I told him I wanted to get my high school diploma, or G.E.D and he told me that I couldn't do it.  For one we don't have the money and another reason is bc he thinks I just can't do it.  He always tells me that I'm gonna leave him if I get a job or I'm gonna work with pervs or talk to all kind of people and have all these friends if I get a jib, so he doesn't want me to get a job.  But financially we need the help.  We can't get everything we need every month bc we have bills and sometimes his account gets over drawn bc of the bills, so that's when we have to borrow but I get tired of having to do that so I want a job but he tells me all this stiff that I can't get one that I should get on disability and all of that/: he says it isn't any of my business what he does or borrows that I don't have to do it and that I shouldn't care and that type stiff.  Is there anything that we could do to get more financial help?  Or any jobs anyone knows of that I could do without a high school diploma or G.E.D.?  I'm just tired of not being able to do for ourselves and having to stress and worry and struggle so much/:  it makes me really depressed that I can't help and that he makes it out like I'm just stupid and can't do anything.