Hello all
 Not too sure what i am expecting posting this question, maybe just a reply from somebody who has or is suffering the same and can tell me there is light at the end of the tunnel.
About 6 months ago i was at my computer and had an awful experience that for a split second it felt that the floor from under me had been pulled away and i kind of jumped up and back down again in an instant (strange)!
Anyway, from that day on i have not quite been the same, its as if i am living outside of my own body, not dizzy, just punch drunk as if i have had a couple of beers on an empty stomach. Other symptoms have gradually appeared also, i have tightness around my head like a swelling, my ears ring occasionally in particular the evenings, my neck and shoulders are stiff, occasional dull headaches, memory loss and poor concentration span and now for the past 2 weeks i have been permanently shattered from the minute i get up to when i go to bed. The tiredness has been there a long time but it came and went but now it is constant.
I went to my doc's after a few weeks of the eposode 6 months ago and originally he thought i had menieres disease but this theory was dismissed after i had some audio tests and she told me my inner ear pressure was fine( over the past 20 years i have suffered sporadic dizzy spells but they are short lived and once gone i am fine).
I have had loads of tests done since inc 2 full blood tests, MRI scan, audio tests, eye tests & i was that desperate to find the problem that i went to the local sexually transmitted disease clinic in case i had some long standing condition.
All the results came back fine, apparently i am a healthy 39 year old male.
Anyway, to cut a long story short, my doc has now diagnosed me with stress!! I have just started taking cilatopram 20mg tablets and have been told that they may take a few weeks to have any affect. I am not convinced that i am actually suffering with stress to be honest, i have a busy life like any body else but i manage it quite well and manage to eat well and exercise regularly ( i stoppped 2 weeks ago due to my permanent tiredness).
 Does anybody have any suggestions what i may be suffering?Do these symptoms sound like something you have had in the past or are suffering from now? Not too sure where to go with this one to be honest! I am also worried of other sinister illnesses like brain tumour's etc but i think the MRI scan would have showed a problem if this was the case.
 Help! Anybody!! Pleaseeeeee........