so my girlfriend and i have been together for 7 months. she has all guy friends and she is very very attractive.. anywhere she goes guys throw themselves at her and she is very flirty with them.. even tho she just says shes being friendly and doesnt want to seem like a b*tch.. but also gives out her number to them when they say they can get her a job.. which is obviously bs cause they always contact her to hangout and somehow the job offer is off the table. she asked me how many people ive been with which to me is a normal question you ask someone you get involved with just to know their past and ho wthey were/are. i told her since ive only been with 5 people. her answer was 8. from hanging out with her and her friends (all guy friends whom i find out shes slept with most of as time goes on they slip up or shes does, and is friends with most of her exes still hangout etc) they spill out whose shes been with or slept with.. i can name 18 people.. when i ask her again she says she has to think of each individual person... and cannot think or remember a number. to me that is obsurd. everyone knows their number.. they may not remember the people but they always know the number....she doesnt.. and to her 10, 20, 30 people is the same thing theres not a big difference to her,  but shes sticking with 8 as her number and wont say any different... as time goes on more and more people tell me whose shes slept with, its getting insane. i never wouldve gotten involved if i knew she was sleeping with every guy she walked into or worked with or met. she refuses to work or accomplish anything. she is 26 is extremely lazy and depends on a guy to support her and her son. shes never been single and after a breakup will be dating anew guy within 2-3 days, and will admit shes dated way over 70 guys but somehow only slept with 8.. and has had numerous friends with benefit encounters.. need advice on what to do or say because right now i am lost with all this... she always get cold sores and will not admit they are herpes from one of the many guys she has dated.