hi
  maybe you can help. I am bi-polar, so as a consequence, the girls I date usually have some sort of mental disorder, maybe like attracts. So I met this girl 2 years ago, she said she was ok with my disorder, as she was happy to finally meet a guy who could be sympathetic to her mom, who is also bi-polar. She hid my disorder from her parents, and I assume it was an approval issue. Our relationship was fast moving. I noticed quite a number of quirks in her attitude, haughty and with a lack of emotion at times, madly in love at others. Because we were pretending that I was "normal", I never mentioned that she may have something wrong. After about 1 year, her mom suggested she see a therapist, as she never looked happy. At that point, I supported it. She told her therapist little of herself, only that she was overemotional, and was prescribed a low dose of antipsychotic. Soon after, she was laid off, and made the excuse that her health insurance did not cover visits to talk or medication. She decided that it was me who made her unhappy and began dating. It took me over a year to get her to confide in me, and she said that the last time she remembers being happy, really happy, was in 2004, before she got home, where she found her mom in the middle of a suicide attempt. She still lives at home and her parents are convinced that I am the one who made their daughter unhappy. Her dad is rather numb at this point after dealing with his wife who is bi-polar, they see their daughters quirks as what makes a person an individual. At this point, we are broken up, her parents know of my disorder, and I have been shunned out of fear. I never harmed their daughter in any way, but they still fear me. Needless to say, I am a bit shocked that a parent with my same disorder would shun me. It really doesnt bother me. What does bother me is that they all deny that this girl has anything wrong. I told them and they just told me that I am the "sick" one, the "crazy" one and that I am trying to ruin their daughters life, and they believe that I just can't get over her leaving me. Funny, I left her, and she begged to be friends so many times, then would get too close , we would be intimate, and she would get cold and tell me that she couldn't make herself love me, she needed someone new. 
  Is there anything I can really do here, or do I just treat this as a girl who doesnt want help and walk away?
Thanks,
Paul D. Kolozeti