I'm 21 years old and a junior in college where I am a member of a sorority; last February (over a year ago), I became involved with a fraternity member at my university.  (I share the information about our Greek affiliations not to indicate some kind of pattern within the Greek community, but so that some aspects of our relationship might be better understood.)  He's very well-liked and crushed upon within our small community, but has a reputation for sleeping around and casually dating several girls at once.  He can be extremely charismatic and charming, and his attention towards me was flattering.  Very soon after we started seeing each other, he made it very clear to me (and the rest of the community) that he was interested in dating only me.  The relationship lasted about 9 months, including the summer between my sophomore and junior years, which he and I both spent on campus essentially living together; I had my own apartment, but spent nearly every night at his.  During the summer, I hardly saw anyone else but him; most of my friends were at home for the summer, so if he and I weren't together, I was extremely lonely.  We are very different people, coming from very different backgrounds, faiths, and upbringings; very early on in the relationship, he demonstrated a great deal of anger issues, often flying off the handle over small things and slow to relax after getting worked up.  We didn't necessarily fight more often than any usual couple, but our fights were extremely intense.  About two months into the relationship, he began hitting me during our disagreements.  The first time it happened, I was extremely confused as to whether or not it was abuse; he didn't hit me very hard, but he had definitely hit me.   I talked to one of my sorority sisters about it, and it was her ambiguous response to the situation that made me feel that I had blown the issue out of proportion, and so I ignored it.  The abuse continued through the rest of the relationship, generally every few weeks or so, whenever we would have a big fight.  He never injured me severely, it was more the principle of the matter that was upsetting.  He was also verbally abusive.  
The relationship ended during this past fall semester mutually; even though he treated me like ****, I still really wanted to be friends with him because we both are part of the same prominent social circle in the community and I knew I'd have to see him all the time.  A few months ago, he invited me to come meet him for a drink.  We had both been out drinking before we met up and were already tipsy.  While we were at the bar, we got into a fight and he hit me again.  Something just snapped inside of me and all of a sudden, I recognized that him hitting me, which was really never ok anyway, was even less ok now that we weren't even dating!  I resolved at that moment to completely cut him out of my life; I haven't spoken to him since that night, and in fact, I don't even make eye contact with him.  
I'm having an incredibly hard time dealing with the aftermath of this situation.  Due to my involvement in the Greek community, I have to see him in a professional context at least once a week.  Frequently, being around him triggers panic and anxiety attacks for me; sometimes I break out in hives and have gotten physically ill.  When these symptoms subside, I usually experience intense depression, self-injury ideation, and usually self-medication by drinking.  I also frequently overdrink when I'm forced to be in a social situation where he is also present.  I know that it's not a healthy way to deal, but I can't deal with the panicked feeling I get when I'm in the same room as him.  I don't honestly feel like I'm in danger or anything, I just feel so trapped.  The entirety of our relationship was under an intense microscope from the Greek community and I'm so ashamed of what I let him do to me and the idea of that information finding its way into the gossip mill is terrifying.  A few of my closest friends know, as does one of our advisors, but that is all.  The worst part is that everyone is so obsessed with him that even if the general community knew, I doubt that they would believe me.  Honestly, I don't care so much about everyone knowing the truth about him, but I'm deeply troubled by the fact that I can't shake these reactions that I'm having.  Last week, I thought I had seen him for the last time; we had our last meeting of the group we're both in, graduation is in about two weeks, and he's moving back to his home state when he graduates (he's a year older than me).  However, he unexpectedly showed up at a function I was running this week, and when I laid eyes on him, it felt like my stomach was going to drop out of my body.  My symptoms all started to kick in again, and it was awful.  It just made me feel more trapped than ever; what's to say that he won't come back to visit some time next year and I could run into him in a bar, a year from now, and still have to feel this awful???
I just don't know what to do to get over this.  I have moved on; I am finally in another relationship with a very caring guy who is extremely sensitive to my feelings on the subject.  I also have very supportive friends.  I was in therapy before I began this relationship, but I have since stopped seeing my therapist, mainly because he strongly encouraged me to continue seeing this guy even after I described some of our fights to him.  I don't feel that it's fair that I should feel so badly about myself because he's around; that he should get that power over me.  I'm not sure exactly where to even begin...