Hi, am a person who faced lot of problems from my inlaws right from the day i was married. its been 10yrs since i got married.
 until now my husband never took any steps to help or solve this issue. he very well knew any problems raised by his family members am not at fault.
 he is scared to talk to his family to help me so he ignored me and finally we broke up almost 8yrs back.but havent divorced yet. 
 he threatened me that i shouldnot tell any problems am facing else he will divorce me. so i didnt tell my parents anything about it for 2yrs.
 later after two yrs when things went out of hand i told them they trusted me and helped me.
 its for my parents request i was staying along with him in his house with my child ignoring every problems they raise against me. 
 My husband very well knew i am not at mistake at any cause but his family is more important than me and his child so he ignored us.
 so i always stay calm to whatever they do or blame me, thinking though it cannot solve problems anymore atleast i can live with peace.
 since today i havent spoken a word replyback whenever they blame me or fight with me thinking it will reduce problems but what happened was otherwise. 
 my parents supported me a lot. helped me a lot. but later they changed my parents mind also. 
 my inlaws always cry cry make a scene and complain about me to my family always until today. they even told my parents they were forced to try suicide cause of me.
 my parents lost trust in me when they used such a word against me. my parents even beat me up listening to their words.
 my in-laws used my silence as a reason to find fault at me again and spoilt my life, my name with my parents,my family and in society.
 My parents never bothered about me cause they think relationship with daughter ends up once they are married.
 they dont want to spoil their name fighting or helping me out.
 even my parents and siblings are against me listening to them now. 
 They also say they cant question them cause they cant lose their respect in the society.
 you are almost 32 now so no point living a life hereafter so better stay calm as you were until these 10yrs.
 if not we will not consider you as our family member. we will spoil your name in our own society and get him married again then you have to die out of shame and nobosy will help you out, so be careful and live your life sameway as these yrs is what my parents say now.
 my husband never took any steps reg. this, he just walk away blaming me along with them though he knows am not at fault.
 he even dont want to prove me to my parents that am not at fault. i even cried a lot fought a lot begging him to prove to my parents that am not fault these 10yrs.
 he havent and finally i told i goto police then he agreed to prove to my parents. but he just told my parents she is not at fault all these yrs. 
 but my parents now refuse to believe whatever he says. my parents say i have threatened him to talk this way. 
 my parents claim he is a good person and am the worst person now. they even talk like this to my relatives.
 now things have gone worse that my family also ignored me totally. i really feel shame to live in this society i cant prove that am not at fault.
 i lost everything except my child. am living in overseas moreover past 10yrs.still this continues.
 I have asked my husband that when u dont want to help me or prove me am not at fault to others then divorce me.
 so far u have spoilt my life for 10yrs and i havent lived my life so far, he says he cant give divorce sametime he even cant prove to my family and others that am not at fault also.
 i need help to come out of this. 
 he wants me to take the blame for his whole family. he says he needs them at any cost.
 i said then leave me, i have lost my whole life but he is not ready to talk or take any steps cause he knows i'll say everything when case moves to court.
 he wants me to initiate divorce or any procedure where he is not ready to initiate anything as that might create a bad image of him.
 ans so he can easily blame me again with proof that she is the one who needs divorce so she is at fault.
 i am really helpless. my parents also not ready to help me they left me.
 can anyone help me? but even today i can prove that am not at fault.
 but both my husband and parents not letting me to talk or prove anything anywhere cause they dont want to lose respect in the society rather they want me to lose everything for them.
 i cant take this anymore. i need help. pls help me. they dont even help me financially also. i was working temporarily so i was managing myself financially for my child. but as of now am home using my savings.
 they block me from all always of survival. 
 pls someone help me. i need help.