Hi, I'm living with a partner who is older than myself, she (63) is an undiagnosed BP, but has all the markers.  We've been together 2 years and the relationship is deteriorating fast.  I have a therapist and I go every week.  She can't seem to connect with any therapist, has had other health issues or other excuses not to seek out treatment.  I used to be her "rock or the best thing in the world" and now I am called "controlling" or being hurt by awful things she either says or does, or just overall how she treats me.  I have done everything to try to "make her happy".  I am in no way saying I'm perfect.  I am to the point that I am now at wits end and very testy and fed up with a lot.
 My therapist has been a great support to try to help me disengage and not take a lot personally, which is VERY hard.  I have "removed" myself from being involved in her medical stuff so that she can't blame me as being controlling or say I did/told her to do stuff.  She doesn't cook, I do all the shopping.  Her eating habits are very unhealthy but I am told to butt out of that too.  I just have to fend for myself basically.  If I get frustrated or critical of anything she does, the world caves in and I half the time end up in tears from hurt.  Now she thinks I am unstable because I have chosen not to stay silent anymore.  I have started to do more reading to calm myself down and found this site today and figured I would ask for help on how to learn to calm down and not take this stuff so personally when it feels so personal.
 I know I'm angry, hurt, and I know that I love her and I want her well, but I know that she has to want that too.  Sometimes, rarely we seem to have adult to adult conversations, but by the next day it's like it never happened.  So, do I just move on?  Give up?  We aren't married, she's had 2 previous marriages, kids, grandkids and none of them come around or keep in touch with her.  I should have seen that as a big red flag to begin with, but I believed her stories of her past which now I question most of her memories of things that have happened in her life, as I watch our relationship unfold and see how her view of me changes as the weeks go by.
 I don't like to give up, but I'm depressed and getting caught in the vortex of this now.  Any opinions or support would be appreciated.
 Thank you