My Friends,
 I have been reading the web quite a bit to get a bearing on schizoaffective disorder and the likelihood that at 63, after taking anti-psychotic medication since I was 25, I might develop tardive dysconesia.  I have concluded that I have been one of the lucky ones, and I wanted to share my experience in case it might help others.
 I took 150 mg. Thorazine at bedtime and 5 mg. Valium three times a day for nine years.  Then my psychiatrist recommended that I try going without medication, as I was doing so well, and there was the chance of developing tardive dysconesia.  After a relapse, I started taking 7 to 9 mg. Navane, Triavil 4 - 25 (one pill), and continued the 5 mg. Valium three times a day.  When I started going through menopause, I had to up my dosage of Navane to 14 to 16 mg. during the winter months.  Now that I am 63, I have been able, in retirement, to reduce Navane to 10 to 12 mg. Navane, and I switched to Trilafon of 4 mg. (eliminating the Elavil).  I am still taking 5 mg. of Valium three times a day.
 I have learned on the web that antioxidants are helpful, perhaps, in avoiding tardive dysconesia.  I have been taking one pill of a vitamin called Stresstabs for my entire adult life; it includes Vitamin C and many B-complex vitamins.  I have also taken 500 mg. of Vitamin C twice a day.  
 During my study of the web, I encountered Vitamin E as a potential help in delaying the onset (or reducing the severity) of tardive dysconesia.  And I have discovered that melatonin is a powerful antioxidant which may also be useful.  In the past month, I started taking 1200 IU of Vitamin E a day, and one mg. of Melatonin at bedtime.
 I have also routinely used caffeine as a drug, but not in high quantities.  I normally drink coffee or take caffeine pills that are equivalent to two cups of coffee a day.  I found one web site that thought that coffee had helped in a rat study.
 I have not cited the web references that mention the key elements in my story, but I found evidence that my vitamin regimen may have helped a great deal.  And two psychiatrists and one internist have told me that they suspect that my constant dosage of Valium throughout all these years may have been preventive.
 I highly recommend the web as a research tool.  I know that MEDLINE might be preferable, but I cannot understand the medical language.  I have found the forums and even the anecdotal reports to be very helpful.
 I appreciate the chance to contribute to this forum, and I welcome your feedback.