Hey Folks,
 I just signed up to this forum today to ask for some guidance in my relationship with my girlfriend.  My GF was diagnosed with BPD a few years ago.  I didnt know her at the time of her diagnosis, and I'm slowly finding out about her past and her family.  We have been dating now for about 8 months, and its been a roller coaster.  This is also my first time dealing with anyone (friends or family) with any diagnosed mental illness, so I came into this relationship very blind so to speak.  
 Upfront my GF explained to me that she was a BPD, and gave me some reading materials to prepare myself.  Books like "Sometimes I act crazy"...and other similar books.  Initially I gave the books a full read and tried to ensure that I was applying a calm and gentle approach to her outbursts and ensuring that I did everything in my power not to set her off.  As time went on she became very needy, and wanted me to do everything for her.  When I attempted to get back in touch with old friends, and relatives that I've been spoken too in sometime I was blamed for being insensitive to her needs.  Some of my friends are women, some are men....no big deal to me.  My GF has told me that she does not believe it possible for me to be friends with women without wanting more....especially anyone who is an EX of mine.  This is not something I was used to, so I have tried to behave in a way that she feels is right.  This type of behavior peeked when she had an outburst about a GF that I had when I was 13 years old and had not seen since I was a teen.  Somehow she had convinced herself that I would leave her for this old GF.  
 Sufficed to say that I'm a bit confused as to where this is coming from as I have never cheated, commented on other women or flirted (flirt - which she does a lot).  When I try to sit her down and rationalize this fear I'm told that its part of a BPD person and I have to accept it.  In the same breath I'm also told that she does not trust me, and does not trust anyone.  She has told me that she believes I will cheat if given the opportunity.  
 I have gone as far as to surprise this woman with flowers in her home...a midnight dinner around an open fire....loves notes....and she still questions my devotion and want to be with her.  As time goes on, I am finding it hard to be intimate with her.  
 Last item of note.  Lets say that I'm having a conversation with her about a night when I was trying to be a real gentlemen and dancing with her...and trying to be generally a good BF.  This conversation will have started because she might have said that I dont want to "be" with her anymore (this also comes after 6 months of her telling me that I'm going to leave her, and she sure of it).  She then pinpoints a time when I didnt want to "be" with her (intimately). So me being a logical person, I go back to that time in my head and go through the emotions.  Every time we go back and look at the situation, it seems that she becomes distant and not willing to be intimate.  But this is not how she remembers it.  If I say that she pushed me away....she says I'm blaming her.  If I say nothing...she says that I'm not trying to be intimate.  
 I'm lost, and seeking some help.  I do truly believe this woman is a good person with a good heart, and as such I'm trying to find out someway I can help her or help myself.  Any tips from anyone either for myself or my BPD GF?
 Thanks Everyone....sorry for the long rant,
Newf