I have posted on here before about how I was abused as a kid by my 19 year old cousin.  At the time I was also abused by two other cousins( 19 and 11) Throughout the years since then I have been through physical, emotional, and more sexual abuse than I can count...along with a few rapes by various guys. I have been raped 4 times ( once when I was 19, once when I was 20, twice at 21,) I am now 22. At one point I got to wear I didn't care anymore and when a guy wanted sex no matter how I was feeling I gave in and I would always give into the pressure and I would just do what they wanted to get it ov er with. Now however I am the opposite to the extreme on the now wanting sex...I think I am addicted to it and I use it has a coping mechanism to deal with other stuff. I have sex lots and lots of sex with my boyfriend, but then sometimes I don't feel like it and I still do it because I feel guilty if I don't give him any when he is horny and then I have been told that if  a guy wants it and you are not giving they will give to someone else. I don't want to lose him so even when I don't feel like it I give it to him. I love him a lot but then there are a couple of things I worry about. LIke sometimes he is a bit controlling ( He is 26 and I am 22) and it scares me. He wants a baby and we have unprotected sex all the time( I want one but I am not sure I am ready for that just yet) and then the two major things:
1. He has had sex with me while I was drunk
2. He has had sex with me while I was sleep and drunk
 He apologized both times and he that look of guilt on his face that I couldn't get over the day after these things happened. When the second thing happened I remebered waking up and not remember much from the night before from being to drunk and he told me we had not had sex and I was confused because we usually sleep naked and that morning he had his clothes completely on, but I remeber we had went to bed naked. I kept asking him what happened and he said nothing. I asked why he was dressed and he said he started to leave the night before. I asked why and he said he ALMOST did something that he would have regretted. Then I akded him if we had sex and kept telling me no and then he finally told me the truth the next night and he said he had. I didn't know how to take it because I love him and I felt violated but confused because he's my boyfriend and ain't I suppose to give him sex when he wants it even if I don't feel like. In the past when I don't want to the guy would just take it or force me to do it or beat me into it one...which explains some of the rapes, but I mean this wasn't rape was it.... I am so confused.  This bothers  me because we have been together almost 6 months and I love him but then there just this situation and what if it happens again...am I suppposte to be this confused. is this normal....