I have been involved in a verbally/emotionally abusive relationship for about 1 1/2 years. I have been with my boyfriend since December 2006. We met online that January but met over Christmas break. He also came to visit me in spring break 2007 before he moved for good to my area that June. It wasn't until August 2007 that our relationship has progressively become toxic. It started out with him yelling at me and occassionally calling me names or putting me down. I put up with it because I thought he didn't really mean it and that he was only stressed out so I shouldn't have taken it personally. However, the abuse reached an explosive stage when we visited his family out of state for the summer of this year. 
 I did not want to stay the whole summer, but he forced me to stay with him. We were staying with his dad, who I suspect my boyfriend has an ugly past with. Whenever his father was stressed, my boyfriend would become stressed, and he would take out all his rage and frusration on me. Progressively it became very frightening; it got to where I did not feel safe. By the time July came around, my boyfriend's abusive behavior became triggered by almost anything. I can recall many times when he would call me every evil name you could think of, yell at me for almost no good reason (I had accidentally dropped one of his electronic devices. It was left unharmed, but he yelled at me and insulted me as I have never been before) There were times he would even wonder why he was with me, he would tell me I was "never there for him", insulted my religion on so many levels, and constantly threatened to kill himself, and blamed all his "gloom" on me. After we came back in late August, he started talking about "our future" and how "we" would possibly move back to where his family is. I do not want this because the whole time I was there, I saw how unhappy and troubled things were. I could see the underlying tension. This is not the life I want to live.
 Backstory aside, here is my dilemma. About a week or 2 after we had returned from out of state, I called my boyfriend and told him I do not want contact from him for 30 days so I could reassess our relationship. (also to buy time away from him). Suddenly, he became the polar opposite of his abusive self. He was suddenly very loving and kind towards me and said he wanted to seriously discuss our relationship with him face-to-face after he 30 days are over. (they will be over on October 5th) As if by magic, I was suddenly the world to him; he said he wanted to marry me and "be everything for me". He is heavily leaning toward "repairing our relationship", but I do not want to pursue this relationship anymore. I am extremely afraid this abuse cycle will continue and possibly get worse, like moving on to physical abuse. I need to know how I can let him know that the damage has left this relationship too far gone and I do not wish to pursue it anymore so I can focus on my future goals. It has gotten to where I am afraid of him; I cannot live on like this.