In the past few weeks I've been having a random collection of symptoms that went unnoticed until I got several large swollen bruises on my ankle, without knowledge of running into anything. The placement of the bruises makes it pretty unlikely that I hit something that hard and didn't know it.  They were more painful than anything I've experienced and I didn't know a bruise could swell like that.  When I asked a doctor friend about it she mentioned leukemia and I realized that I'd had just about every symptom flare up in the past few weeks, but they were recurring symptoms I've experienced on and off for a few years.  I went to the doctor and they ran a blood test and took a chest x ray (because I've experienced a lot of lung infections in the past & have a cyst there), but everything looked normal.  They told me to look out for more bruises and swollen lymph nodes and sent me home.
 I brushed it off thinking I must be crazy, but today I realized that the painful area just above my breast and near the armpit is actually exactly where my axillary nodes are.  They are always always sore, but I don't have health insurance and I do a lot of self-healing.  I massage this area every day, several times a day.  When I do it makes me get this healing burps that feel like they're somehow removing the pressure.  I can sense an area in my body that feels "sore" and I touch or massage it and it makes me burp.  I wasn't able to burp for a long time, but after massaging and "healing" certain areas it started coming out in this way…not usually because of food but always because of touch or massage.  Before I could burp I'd touch the sensitive areas and you'd hear this weird sound going off in my body.  Totally not documented in medicine I'm sure but I thought I'd mention it.  When I massage over this area the burps sound almost inhumane, really really deep..sounding more like croaking than burping.
 The symptoms that I've been experiencing in the past couple weeks are that I noticed that the left side of my stomach was much higher than my right, like something was swollen inside just below my left ribs.  This same night I also thought I saw blood in my stool.  Since about this time I've been sweating non-stop, and have even had people comment on it.  I also have a recurring rash of small red bumps on my chest and sometimes back that comes and goes, but is there now.  I remember feeling a huge lump in the lowest part of my groin at this time too, sort of next to the perineum.  It was just smaller than a gold ball.  I also haven't been eating or hungry for the same amount of time, which also comes and goes in phases.  
 The pain near my breast got so bad that one night that I went into a deep mediation all night long, 8 hours straight, focusing on healing this area near my heart/armpit…thinking it had an emotional base.  It was very intense, and my legs were numb for hours.  I finally decided to move them and they were so tingly, I shook one really hard because it was more tingly, and the next night I noticed the bruises covering the other ankle.  I also remember doing a lot of work in my stomach and feeling some really intense and strange sensations just under my rib.  It's very near where my lung cyst is, so I felt like I was healing that.
 By the time I went to the doctor the groin lump was gone and my stomach was even again.  I didn't know that the spot that I've been massaging constantly was a lymph node, and I didn't mention it or the swelling in my groin, which had gone down.  What I'm wondering is, it is typical for lymph nodes to swell and go down with leukemia?  Is it possible that all of the constant massaging is keeping them from swelling…and is it possible that the blood work would be normal if this were an underlying thing?  Thanks!