Hi. My real name is Ryan Baker, i don't care who knows. I'm sorry for wasting your time with my problems, but I need to let this out. First off. I am a male 15 year old Canadian, I am transgender, I have been for about a year, but I recently realized what all the feelings I had before were. I realized I was transgender, I hated myself for it, I still do. I shunned myself and stopped talking to people for awhile, thinking they're all better then me (they all still are). And after hating myself for awhile, hurting myself because I deserved it for being transgender ( I'm so sorry I call myself transgender, to all trans people out there I'm so sorry I'm ruining the name, I don't feel worthy of the name transgender, I don't feel worthy of the title depressed, because if other depressed people knew i was they would be ashamed even more that I was using there title). I would cut myself, hit myself against walls, I'm exhausted currently, the simple tasks now become to much to handle, I recently realized, I was, and am, depressed, I hate using that title, I feel like I'm ruining it, making depressed people worse, I would and still do, constantly hurt myself for being depressed, I cut myself, and I hit myself against walls and I once stabbed my hand using a small knife, i felt nothing and I wanted to feel something so I stabbed my hand, it hurt so much, It felt warm though, it made me feel somewhat happy. I keep abusing myself for wanting to be a girl. I'm sorry I want to be a girl. I know, please nobody tell me again, a mutated male body is not a female body. So even if I went through surgery, I would sill be a Man. I feel dirty for wanting to be a girl, I feel lonely for all the time, I want everything to end. I'm shy, I get bad grades, I'm lazy, I'm clumsy, I'm transgender, I'm depressed, I'm a waste of space, a waste of resources, I wouldn't be missed. Again, I'm exhausted right now, this is probably full of mistakes, I know I'm a mistake so all I do is make more. I'm sorry to any transgender people reading this, I'm sorry I call myself one of you.