Hello all….  I have a situation I’d appreciate some feedback on.  I grew up in a family where I was emotionally and verbally abused by my mother about anything that I did, said, emotions, etc.  As a child she constantly told me I was nuts and needed a psychologist and that I would never have any friends because no one can stand to be around me.  She has gone out of her way, through the years, not only to abuse me in private but to do so in public also by belittling me in front of people.  I was lucky.  As an adult, I made friends who helped me deal with my self-esteem issues by telling me I was a good, smart and attractive person.  It took a long time but thank God for them.
 Anyway…. I have a unique situation I’d like to know if anyone else has encountered.  (And if anyone has any feedback they’d care to share.)  I moved 350 miles from the family I was raised in.  (I don’t call them “my family” anymore.  I don’t feel it fits.)  I should have moved further but didn’t due to some circumstances.  So, through the years I have traveled to see them 1, 2 or 3 times in a year.  It lessens every year and I now doubt I’ll go back for a year or two.  My parents have made no effort to travel to see me in +13 years but always expect me to make the effort to visit.  They tell people I never invite them to visit, that I never call them, etc.  Although, I do 98% of the calling to them.  
 My siblings make no effort to visit either.  My brother and his family have been as close as 50 miles from me several times over several years.  It was kept from me as a big family secret until my nephew let it slip out.  Talk about a collective gasp in the room!
 Talking to them won’t work.  I’ve brought it up various times in 24 years.  It doesn’t do any good.  I’ve decided next time “my father” asks (my mother never does) that I’m telling him I know they have no intention of every coming to visit me so I’ll try to visit in a few years.
 Has anyone else had experience with this and what did you do?   Thanks so much for your input and good ideas.