My 22 yr old son, suffered from panick attacks about 6 years ago, he was gven meds from his GP but never took them, he does not suffer from these attacks now. In august 2009  on the day he was meant to be going on holiday with us , after a major argument he told us he was bulemic. He has lost alot of weight but still ate lots in front of us, apparently this had been going on for 2 years.  He agreed to go to the GP with me, but wanted to go in the room by himself. He was offered counselling and anti depressants to which he refused. It has been 5 months now and he has put on about a stone in weight, but now constantly excercises and has joined a gym. He also buys lots of bodybuilders supplemets eg protein shakes etc, but tells us he does not make himself sick anymore. Our problem now is that he a constant lyer, not about food but everything he tells us, he does not think about anyone else but himself, he is VERY CONTROLLING with people, especially girlfriends and we don't know if this is related to his condition or something else.  Is he just attention seeking, as we had the police turn up at our house saying that a friend from his college had phoned them because she was concerned for his wellfare and that he was going to throw himself from a motorway bridge. When we tracked him down he denied all of this, but he had to attend the police station, he denied it all to them. But what we have since found out is that whilst he was in the police station they left him alone & he phoned his girlfriend to tell her  that when the police questioned her to say she knew nothing and that he had been with her all day. they then let him go .!!! The truth was that she had finished with him and  he ran out of the car near a motorway and didn't come back to the car for about 40 mins. but he still denies ringing any friend to talk to at that time.   He is in full time education doing his A levels and only has 3 months to go as he wants to do zoology, but he hardly goes and does not seem to care that we constantly argue about this  and that if he doesn't want to go to college then he needs to get a job. Nothing gets through to him and  now we have had his ex girlfriend dad ringing us because our son is constantly sending her abusive txts etc. What is wrong with him ?