Hello,
       My husband and I have been together for 20 years..married for 16. We have had our share of rough times. I have stood by him through several drug addictions and rehabs. We lived beside of his parents for years before they passed away. This was more than a struggle to say the least but I never wanted to keep my husband from his family..now that they are gone I am glad I didnt. This year has been a very rough year for us..we have a special needs child who is wonderful and we both love him dearly. I have had several health issues this year as well as dealing with severe bouts of depression.  My husband rents the place next door to his niece, her husband and children. This was suppose to be a "temporary" thing but that was over 5 years ago. My husband and I decided to sell our home and the rental property to move to a better area for our child. To make a long story short we have been having marital problems for awhile but have been trying to resolve this. A couple of weeks ago my husband and his nieces husband had a disagreement over the rental property. Her husband started cursing me and throwing his arms up at me. My husband stood there and said absolutely NOTHING. Then his niece got involved and she started in on me. My husband simply turned around and walked into the house. I was so devastated that he did not stand up for me. We had a big argument and I left for a couple of days. He kept apologizing. A few days later I was at the hospital with my family. My dad was having open heart surgery. My phone started bolwing up with text messages and calls from my husbands nieces sister and her mom calling me horrible names and saying I was using our son against my husband to make him kick his niece out of the rental property. I didnt have a clue what they where talking about.I have never and will never use our child against his dad.I was so upset I called my husband. He called them all and "politely" told them all to stop texting and calling me. I told him he not only let me down and hurt me not once but twice. I told him it was either them or me. I would not live beside of people who would treat me so disrespectful on MY property. He said he would make them leave but had to give them time to find a place. I understood that. My depression has gotten alot worse so I wanted to meet with my biological brother..I was adopted.. I needed to find support somewhere. I told my husband this and he does not like him and is not supporting me. He also told me he has no plans of making them leave because they have small children and they cannot afford to live anywhere else. So he gets his family..chooses them over me no matter how they treat me yet he doesnt want me to have anything to do with my brother when I feel so absolutely alone. They (his niece) has apologized to him, but has made no effort whatsoever to even speak to me.  Please any advice would be very helpful...Im at my wits end.