Hello!
 My name is Earl and I'm 18. I do not like to pity myself or automatically assume I have a disorder or a disease but I would really like some suggestions. I have been severely depressed most of my life. My depression includes severe anxiety, panic attacks, severe loss of energy, random and severe mood swings, and other odds and ends. I have experienced panic attacks and anxiety since I was a kid and my depression started to worsen around 12 or 13. I think the typical depression symptoms are universal so I assume those who are able to help know what I'm talking about. I do have terrible mood swings, which usually company my anxiety attacks. I can change from an ecstatic, happy feeling to an impending doom mood in a split second. When I talk about a loss of energy it is both physical and mental. I am not out of breath but sometimes I am very achy and I cannot push myself to do things and feel sleepy and exhausted. I almost received help when I was 16 but my mother insisted I was just a teenager and it was my hormones. In May of this year (I turned 18 April 26th) I went to the doctor with my mother because I sometimes have warm, achy joints. My doctor was very kind and since I was 18 I went to the examination room alone. I usually don't tell people about these problems but I was feeling like maybe it was my chance to do something for myself so I explained to her my symptoms. She prescribed me Fluoxotine in 20mg, white pills. It's the technical term for Prozac I assumed. I also think it is just a generic depression medication prescribed as a trial medication to make sure you don't have any long-term mental illnesses. A week later I came home from school and I was actually in a decent mood but I had been contemplating suicide for a month then, I do everyday but I was beginning to plan different ways, and I swallowed about 120 - 80mg aspirin, some of my fathers Lisinopril (for his heart), half a bottle of Ibuprofen, and some melatonin. I ended up feeling severely sick the next day at school and felt sensitive to light, nauseated, and my hearing started to alter. After school my mother found out after she discovered the empty pill bottles in my room and called my doctor. I told my doctor about the suicide and she upped my dosage to 40mg. Even though I have been on Prozac for about a month and a half I can't really tell if they are working. The first week on the 20mg pills I could feel a difference but they stopped working after that week. My hearing came back after three days and I feel fine now. I have also tried to commit suicide twice in a week my Junior year using four bottles of generic, Equate pain killers. My parents do not know about those. Also, my parents do not seem very interested in these issues. They acknowledge that I have them but they believe it is solely my responsibility. My mother does have mental illness, she has tried to commit suicide multiple times from the age 18 and also has depression. She is an alcoholic but it doesn't bother me as much as it did when I was younger. She used to be addicted to cocaine but that was about 5-10 years before I was born (1994). My father also has used various drugs such as meth and possibly heroine (I'm not sure, also before I was born.) My anxiety and panic attacks are very severe, where I feel absolute doom for no particular reason. I freeze up and my heart races, I feel sick to my stomach and I desperately want to cry. This happens very often, ever since I was very young, I would say 4 or 5. I don't believe any trauma was the cause but I did experience being in the vehicle when my mother received a DUI and in the back of a cop car. My mother has always drank, as I explained, and often belittles me. I witnessed her almost committing suicide with a hand gun in her bedroom when I was 5 (I believe). She has done other things but I don't like to blame others for my problems so I will leave it at that. My mother also has sings of severe bi polar disorder or dissociative disorder because her personality often changes. My father has always remained distant and disapproving of me. He thinks I am intelligent but was not a particularly supportive father. I should also mention that I am gay, it is not a choice, do not try to convince me otherwise because you will sound idiotic. Being gay does not put stress on me because I know I did not choose it and it's not something to be stressed about. For over a year and a half I have been bulimic. I am 6'0 and weigh 127-131 lbs. I have poor weight image issues. I do like the way I look but I have never approved of my body weight. I think I may be anemic because I have recently started to have bouts of nausea and fatigue including shaking fingers, dizziness, and poor vision. I live in Butte, Montana. I really truly appreciate all help given (I am an atheist so I prefer you didn't mention your religion or prayers thankyou) 
 I'm very lost and I really wish to find some answers, thankyou.