I have borderline personality disorder, and a shoulder disability... I am currently taking Ultram, for pain, and Cymbalta 60mgs for depression.. What do people like me do??? Is it just a new relationship that brings these qualitys front and center, and in a war like battle??? major life changes??? or does it sound like I need medication??? Anger outburts are an understatement... I am good one minute and any time I feel this way as I will describe I shift... also pain doesnt help whatso ever... The seasonal change makes it worse too... I feel the same way you do... I started feeling comfortable with being alone... I really thought I d always be alone and I began to be okay with that...Until I met the love of my life, three months after getting out of rehab for opiates, a ten year battle love workcomp in Cali= do to shoulder problems and pain. I am a single mom, of a five year old. its always just been me and him... I have always had erratic mood swings, Ive been diagnosed with borderline personality disorder... It isnt easy to deal with nor the people that love us... I dont deal with change well... I feel ignored easily... But pretend I dont... I feel unapprieciated usually in relationships but pretend and keep doing things for others I love because I want too. I expect alot out of others, only because I expect alot out of myself... I have a hard time communicating, but I am good at communicating when in a certain calm and nondefensive state... That really is a good time to talk to your love ones when your feeling this way... Or after sex talk with your spouse my therapist told me that is when men our most receptive, after a good orgasm... LOL anyways I know what your going through my now fiance moved in this weekend theres been alot of stress and depression along with another major life change and I am having a hard time dealing with it... My mans on the couch I m in my room after crying and feeling hurt, feeling unapprieciated, and lacking team work and understanding on his part... I am still dealing with chronic pain with my shoulder doing the best I can and It just seems to never be enough to make me happy ... I felt better alone sometimes it just seems easier... Idont know what to do... I really love him... But words hurt both of us... I like controlled pain as long as I can control it when I cant I tend to do it myself if you know what I mean...Hopeless romantic, hopelessly feeling misunderstood, and feeling very alone not many friends... Help!!!   WhiteWitch8