Hi, I'm a 45 yr old female with a history of depression for which I've been on medication for about 10 years.  I've worked at the same company for over 15 years but in the last few years it's been very difficult.  I found that two of my colleagues were very negative towards me and my job in the last couple of years.  I would have run ins with them and discuss these with my supervisor whom I thought was dealing with it.  It continued regardless so I stopped telling my supervisor.  Fast forward to last year where in a workshop I felt harassared and bullied, sort of a culmination of the previous couple of years.  It was a four day workshop and several times I had to leave the room crying because I was so upset.  I had travel plans for the weekend and the week was so upsetting I cancelled and lost money for flights and hotels.  The following week, the instigators acted like nothing happened.  Even the HR person was not happy with what happened and told me the first night she called the CEO about the situation.  All in all I complained about the situation and the employer brought in a consultant. Which didn't heLp (actually made it worse in my opinion).  Nothing was done except to tell everyone to "play nice". It was beyond that.  I ended up doing some heavy sole searching and talking to many people and when the employers wouldn't do anything else about the situation, I felt I had too.  I ended up filing a harassment/bullying claim against the two staff members for all the situations over the last few years. There was an investigation, some no contact rules (our offices are all next to each other).  It was very tense and created a very poor work environment and of course rumours abounded which made it much worse.  It was a difficult time for me.  I ended up losing my case as peoples recall wasn't the same as mine and also because of who the investigator chose to interview.  Anyway, since then there has been a workplace assessment.  I work on my own the other two work in teams, those teams make up over half the office staff.  So you can guess who was placed in a negative light when the workplace was assessed.  As a result this was by far the most stressful experience of my work life.  Over the last few years I took stress leave more than once.  Things really have not been better, I have a new supervisor which I thought would be good, however, when she got angry with me over something and yelled at me she made me cry.  She angrily told me to stop all this crying you're bringing down the whole office!  It was horrible!  Then when I mentioned how apprehensive I was about speaking to a couple of the team members (they now ignore me and won't even say good morning even when I say it first), it actually causes me a great deal of anxiety, she told me "I need to get over it!"  I'm at a place where my job performance is suffering and I'm worried about losing my job.  Thru all I've been thru my confidence is totally shot, I don't want to leave the job because I live in a small town and this job pays very well and I'd be lucky to get half of what I'm getting now somewhere else.  I don't think I could even apply for something else as my confidence is so gone.  I'm considering looking into long term disability but I'm so worn out from everything else, the huge incident, and resulting investigation, etc, I'm concerned I'd lose that too and then have no recourse but to quit.  Has anyone here been successful in getting long term disability that can give me some advice?