Let's rewind about 9 years. When I was in high school, I was a victim on an armed robbery. I walked into my home while it was going on, and was tied up and had guns put to my head and the men rubbed me in place no 16 year old (at the time) should have been touched, in front of my step father who was tied up. :( Lets just say this is one case that my "wonderful" local Sheriff's office has never solved, (oh and it took the deputies 2 hours to get to my home which was less than 2 miles from the Sheriff Dept.) I'm from South Louisiana where politics are extremely corrupt, to the point that when my mom went to the sheriff's office to ask about the progress our Sheriff now, who was running for office at this point in time, told my mother he knew nothing, and was only at the office to pick up his paycheck. >:@!!! 
 Now back to present day. I am currently engage and have a 5 year old daughter. But, my fiancé is a Senior Inspector  on the construction side of the oilfield business, and sometimes he is working nights, and occasionally goes offshore for day/weeks at a time. I am perfectly fine during the day, but once the sun starts to go down, My daughter and I are locked in my room. We live in the country and there are fields, and wooded swamp that surround our house, so once it's dark, it does get kinda spooky. I am to the point where I literally grab everything I need, phone, charge, water, whatever, and run! I'm so afraid to even look out the window to even see if anything is out there.
 I panic, my heart races, and I get completely terrified. So terrified that I have two shotguns and pistol on the side of my bed because all I can think of is, What if it happens again. 
 I'm just realizing this is a problem. I started looking back since that night 9 years ago, and I've notice that at night I'm more panicked and terrified that ever before. You have to understand being a southern girl, I was raised to not let a thing bother me, but this has gotten to far!!!!! I mean, it's where if I am out somewhere or whatever and I get home after dark, I leave my car running,  while I unlock my house door, and run back to turn off my car, and back to the house. I panic to sleep in house that doesn't have blinds over the windows. The house we were renting before we bought this house, was very open, and had a "man cave" with floor to ceiling windows all the way around, I had to put a curtain up in the door way, bc i was terrified at night. I wouldn't take a shower/potty in the master bath, bc there was a window with no blinds/curtain. This house too is in the country, it's actually a few doors down from our current home. Now our current home like I've said is surrounded by cattle fields and wooded swamp. Basically all the entry doors are completely glass. And there are a ton of windows, our room is upstairs, so there is no windows, but in the bathroom, there is a door that goes out to the balcony and this door too is all glass, so if I have to potty I panic and make sure all the lights are off first.
 It's really affecting me now and the last week or so I have been extremely out of whack and I keep running it through my head and this has got to be the root of everything. I just don't know what to do, or who I should see, as in my general doctor, or a psychologist. I just want to not freak out about this anymore. I'm tired of it ruling my life. 
 If anyone has any recommendations please, help. I really can't talk to family because they are really not supportive or the most positive people. They are always too blunt, and right now I need understand, and help.
 Thank you!