Hello. I'm new here (just made an account an hour or so ago...) and I need serious help. I'm thirteen years old and I think that I'm dealing with moderate-severe depression. It started on the first say of 8th grade, this year, and I was feeling this confusing "ball" of depression inside of me. I began to dwell on past experiences such as embarassments, bad decisions, arguements, things I've said, et cetera. It has been simply like this for weeks and little things such as dropping books, tripping on things, being late for class, et cetera, have been making me want to burst into tears. And then, once I spilled my lunch and my friends' lunches all over the floor I had to clean it all up myself with a mop and bucket. People were laughing at me and telling me to clean faster and stuff like that. I was so embarassed and stressed that I burst into tears and sat on the floor as people stared at me. I started seeing the school pcychologist from that point out. However, lately, she has been missing the mark for me. And because of that, I didn't know what to say. But anyway, the more times I saw her, the more my depression became clearer and, unfortunately, the more it got worse. I began to think dark thoughts and sinful things and became more lifeless around others, things like how my life is a lie, how I'm destined to go to Hell, how even though I try my hardest to help others and please them, I do it for myself, making me a selfish human being. I also began to feel like I wasn't worth knowing, how I was so foolish for not realizing these things until now. I go on an online composition site, where in the Forums I have made such tight bonds with the people there that I have grown attached to the computer and have grown to hate the outside world. I feel like people don't understand me on the outside and that people DO understand online. And I have proven this true over time. I don't have many friends on the outside world and the friends that I do have are not the understanding type and sometimes harass me and say that I'm just being overdramatic. And so I have attached myself to the web even more. Over the two years of being on that site, I have formed a love with a 17-year-old guy (who I refuse to state his real name here) who calls himself "Hawksearcher." He was overall the nicest person I've never met and he understands me most. Whenever I am sad or angry he does not react with depression or anger or guilt, but he reacts with a calm attitude, warmth, and kindness. Words can not express how wonderful he is. And so recently, it has grown from a crush to a love. One day, I had a breakdown on that site and released all of my terrible emotions, and once again, to my surprise he responded with calmness, warmth, kindness, and understanding. He wasn't demanding with me but he just understood and told me that he would help me in any way possible. So after I read that post, I admitted my love to him, right there. I know what you are all going to say, that it is too dangerous to fall in love with someone online and that I'm just getting over my head. That is true, but, however, I HAVE seen a picture of him and I've heard his voice. I refuse to believe that he is a liar no matter what anyone says. He is the most sincere person I've ever met and nothing would change how I truly felt about him. At that point, I knew that he would be shocked or angry with me once I said what I said. But he talked with me privately shortly after and he, once again, was very fond and warm. He said that if I truly wanted to take another step and make our relationship more serious, that I would have to somehow show him who I truly am (picture, video, et cetera.). However, he said that he isn't forcing me, and hat he respects my decision and rights and wants to make sure that it's okay with my parents before I do something. Ever since then I've never heard from him and I have longed for his physical presence, which has been tearing me apart. I have been questioning my love, and have been wondering if it has been just a childish delusion of mine that we could actually be together. He's so far away from me, in age, location, and wisdom. I know that I could never compare to him. This is the main reason at this point why I am depressed and confused. Lately, because I haven't been able to maintain contact with him and have been fading away from my physical friends and family, and because all of my hopes and dreams for the future are no longer visible to me, I have been thinking about running away or disappearing from the world. I no longer feel love for my parents or my friends and if something had been taken away from me I wouldn't care. And I've had this childish whim that when I would do that, that my love would be by my side, holding my hand as we ran. It's such a childish thought, and you have no idea how much of a fool I feel like. Also, what I have said here is NOTHING close to the full explanation of my depression. Most of my feelings have been writen on my computer and I continue to write them today. I just want to hear some thoughts from you guys. What do you think I should do? I've vaguely spoken to my mom several times and after what has happened, I know for a FACT that she wouldn't understand. And my mom and my dad would be so furious and disappointed in me, knowing that I became vulnerable online and ended up falling in love with a 17-year-old. My friends aren't close enough to me to even want to understand me. How severe do you think my depression has become based upon what I have said? I just don't know what to do. Time is ticking by so slow for me and I don't even see a future anymore. I'm so confused and I am seriously thinking about doing something drastic. Help?