I like to bleed. Plan and simple. I cut myself just to bleed, I dont know how, but I like to. I do not want to stop. Its not a problem but a need. I can go a month or even longer withouth it, but never longer than a year. Its lust, want, need. I dont know if this is normal, Ive been to scared to ask anyone if there are into it or like it. I have lost alot of people because of it. I just is so amazing! I love to feel the pain, I love to smear the blood on face and all over, and realistically I dont want to change. I cut all the way down my arm, over and over. To hide it, I wear hoddies.  The only thing I want to change is that I have to wear hoddies. I want to do it and never want to stop. Im not asking for addvice, I just want to know why I feel like I want it. I have lost so many girlfreinds because of it!I also think Im a sociopath. I fear that no one know the "real" me. I have been fake for so long I dont know what is what. I would just like to know what is what and why? and want to know if Im normal, if there are other people???
I also think its very sexy. I have never been able to find anyone that is cool about it and could use it sexually. I want to but never had the chance!!! Is it me? I need to know. The reason im not talking to a doctor or anything, is because if Im in front of someone, I fit to their needs! I read what they want, I can read a person and use it against them. I have never meant someone  that has been able to figure me out or know that Im lying. What am I and why do I feel this? Why the need to see my self bleed and smear it!! Im not scared or want to stop, like I said before,
 Background: I have never drank. I smoke the doobie from time to time. I dont drink coffee, only water and real juice. Im not going to tell you the past or anything becuase then you would assume its my past. I want to know the real thing and why!!!
 Thank you so much for taking the time to read all this and if you reply thank you double fold for reading all this and replying!!
 Devin