I suffer from depression/anxiety and some OCD too it seems like most of my life. My old doctor that I went to for 10 years had me on SSRI's and they caused me to have that racey jittery type anxiety feeling. My side effects on the SSRI's (Celexa, Zoloft, Effexor) were a jittery racey type anxiety, sexual side effects (less on Celexa), and overslept in the mornings before work because I was so groggy (mornings only). This doctor said I have depression/anxiety, not a mood disorder.
 I moved so I now go to a new new doctor and he says I have a mood disorder, not depression/anxiety, because people with mood disorders typically have increased anxiety on SSRI's. So the new doctor says I am having too many side effects on the SSRIs and that if I was on the right medicine I would not have this many side effects. He says that I need to be on mood stabilizers. I'm not sure that I buy that because mood stabilizers have crazy side effects too.
 I'm scared of mood stabilizers! They seem to have bad and maybe worse side effects, weight gain, akathisia, thyroid issues, liver damage, etc. I'm more comfortable with SSRI's because of the less scary side effects. I am lucky to be taking Latuda (way expensive though), because it doesn't cause weight gain and has a lot less side effects. It did cause me to have akathisia at the 60 mg dose. Akathisia ***** more than anxiety and and more than any side effects I experienced on SSRIs. I hope the 40 mg dose of Latuda I'm on now will be enough to keep me out of depression since it’s as high as I can go without getting akathisia. I’m not adding another medicine just to cure the akathisia so that I can go on a higher dose of Latuda. I was having leak through depression on Latuda, but maybe I just wasn't on the right does long enough.
 If this Latuda doesn't work, then I think I'm back to SSRI's and just accept the side effects. I hear so many issues of people trying all kinds of mood stabilizers (Seroquil, Depakote, Zyprexa, Geodon) and hearing all of their complaints. Maybe Lexapro would work instead of Zoloft or Celexa since it seems to work on anxiety more and is a cleaner version of Celexa. Maybe Lexapro won't make me so jittery. Celexa did work better than the other SSRIs for me, just jittery and Lexapro is the newer version. And, do I have just depression/anxiety, or do I have a mood disorder?! Just for the record I do take 100mg of Lamictal, which doesn’t really do anything but I’m also on a low dose of it. I just don’t want to get off of it because it takes too long to titrate up on it.
 Please help me with your feedback. Please don’t tell me to discuss this with my doctor. I already know that and already have discussed it with him (both of them) and have two different opinions. I want feedback from people that already have experience with these types of meds. Doctors don’t always know what we have to go home to and deal with outside of their office.
 Main Question: Do you think I’m suffering from a mood disorder because the SSRI’s made me have a jittery racey anxiety?!?! This anxiety feeling is the same type of feeling you get when you take too much Wellbutrin or too much caffeine. And what do you think about the meds SSRIs vs Mood Stabilizers? Does anyone here take Latuda just for depression/anxiety (not for bipolar)?