only or mostly bad things happen...to me.. i cant make any friends-- i am 'always' totally alone.. i have no one....i am young beautiful vibrant have everything going for me-- people anywhere i encounter loathe and despise me-- for no reason...i look like the person people should be flocking to but instead people persecute me-- i get targeted, insulted, harassed, abused, persecuted....literally...i have 'no' friends...the only people who come into my life try to use/abuse/torture me to extremes and insadistic ways...people have destroyed my life over and over again...there is nothing i can do to change this....ive been 'single' all my life-- cant meet a man..despite the fact that i am extremely beautiful/appealing....i cant meet anyone? men i meet try to use me cruelly and ditch me-- every guy i meet... i have been dealing with this for 13 years now...it is appalling shocking and so strange...EVERYONE has the SAME reaction to me and treats me the 'same' way...i get no breaks...it is constant- non-stop suffering or loneliness...that's it..if people are around me they abuse torment insult harass me use me try to get something off me and leave me floored....this is the ONLY thing that has happened to me- i can't have any fun go places hang out---everyone does EVERYTHING to make my life hell.....i can 'feel' that im alone and that im trapped in some kind of energetic vortex, with bound chains and i can't break free of them...im being forced to go through this spiritual hell and i can't get out....b/c im 'alone and beautiful' predators flock to me to use manipulate attack harass torment me in very cruel ways and use my loneliness against me....so they can try to use me for their sick desires which isnt even sexual....its just control/torture
men wont even please me sexually..or use me sexually....only to control/torture/manipulate yet im a sexual goddess and drop dead gorgeous....why is this happening to me?? im a good person never hurt anyone never would want to-- ONLY do good...not manipulate bad clever evil--nothing just pure good.... i cant make friends with 'ANYONE"..every human despises me....they give me dirty looks, act stupid..run away, are rude, mean...outcast me....mock me....why??? why would people mock a sweet innocent gorgeous nice pure angelic female??? are people just so evil.....they dont od it to others-- just me... the worst part is-- i cant make any friends in life?? no one will hang around me, people hate me....put me down...for no reason ? every person reacts the SAME way to me???? how is this possible??? they mess with me, screw with me, are rude mean derogatory etc...treat me in this specific way.... ive never witnessed anything like it in my life....ive been dealing with it for many years.....i dont understand it....but im in my 30's and aside from never having a real boyfriend, i have no friends...yet i have a 'star like' celebrity appeal, am extremely beautiful and stand out....and yet everyone hates or is jealous of me-- i mean every human i meet??? ive been to counselors-- they were horrible-- all treated me the same way-- rude mean....some insulted me...others just listened and did nothing to help and some mocked me...they all treated me the way people treat me....and no one helped-- no one tries or cares to help me-- everyone just tries to bring me down ruin/destroy me....ive had several or manypeople go out of their way to destroy my life and succeed...ive never heard of thsese kind of horrors....to one innocent girl...over and over again by so many people...and for what reason? anytime i try to do anything-- there are 10 people there to try to stop me in extreme and excessive ways....everyone i try to get help from, either turns on or against me or turns away from me...this is no joke...ive received NOTHING positive from people....only extreme hatred/negativity.....im a very loving/compassionate person and want to spread my love/kindness/friendliness to others....but if im nice to people or friendly, tehy treat me like dirt, insult, go crazy and sometimes just act psycho.... ive been told...its 'karmic' and in past lives...ive done 'bad things to people' i dont know if its trueor not but in this 'life' i am literally an 'angel' who only does good and wants to spread love/positivity/good, but all i get is extreme opposition/hatred---its almost as if people hate me b/c im a force of 'good'.....why people abuse me so badly is beyond me...im not treated like a woman...the beautiful amazing woman i am-- im treated lower than a monster and lower than anything ive ever witnessed in my life....all humans persecute me and throw negative energy at me....this is not an exaggeration....ive been suffering like this for many many years....i dont know why or what to do about it....i cant change my nature and be mean or aggressive....i cant battle so many people everywhere....can jealousy cause people to want to destroy a gorgeous innocent girl and why me? when there are lots of gorgeous nice women out there....why do people target me? if i walked into a place...amongst a group of people..there 'will' be people who will either trash talk me, talk bad about me or try to blame me for something....try to make me look bad...people ignore me, won't talk to me...everyone does 'everything' to not be positive to me, isolate, outcast, persecute....again this is not an exaggeration...its 'everyone' i have encountered...at least 98% of people or more......this is ALL i have to endure 24/7....and being so 'beautiful'...i cant even meet a guy or get a boyfriend-- its really odd....im sweet genuine loyal caring monogamous beautiful, amazing nice....yet men don't chase me...they treat me like garbage and run away from me...outcast insult harass run away screw me over try to use me---EVERY male ive ever met does this to me-- use me in the cruellest ways...while they cater to other women....why?? i witness other beautiful women-- they are stuck up mean rude....they have hordes of men flocking to them but a nice caring sweet amazing girl, gets treated lower than dirt...why??? my only 'boyfriend' wasnt one, he was a sociopath who was using me to control/abuse/torture mentally...and sadistically...refused sex with me tho im a virgin...and just used me to mock/harass/torment long distance mostly...he wouldnt even be in my presence and just tortured me for fun....charged me money to see him...used me so horribly i cant even explain...put me thru mental trauma i can never get over and worse, i cant even go to a counselor to get help b/c no one will help me-- this is no joke...NO ONE will help me? everyone...just tries to do the same thing-- manipulate, screw with me...etc...everyone ive met so far...why this is happening to me...is unfair odd and shocking...why a gorgeous beautiful amaznig normal nice girl can't even get help from a counselor and only insults and mockery....no im not 'crazy, paranoid, exaggerating, perceiving things wrong'....ive been dealing with this many many years...ive had people with me saying....they didnt understand 'why' the people were treating me so badly..or..WOW that person was RUDE to you.... no its not that i have people to 'hang out with'-- i have to meet random people off the internet who treat me like garbage too....those are the people im 'talking about' ...ive been with people who've said...WOW...EVERYONE is staring at you??? omg...everyone's staring at you.... in some situations...what im saying is that what happens to me is very bizarre...it makes no sense yet...there is no solution to it? im forever an unfortunate 'LONER" with not a single friend in the world-- literally...yet am amazing beautiful person ....and everyone in my life has destroyed me, ...anyone i encounter treats me like a monster or freak, yet im an incredibly pretty girl? and if 'every' human treats u this way-- just about....how can you survive on this planet being a loner who is persecuted?