In need of any help i can acquire. Thanks
Well guys,
This for me is now my last resort in terms of getting over the problems which i am currently having. I was going to make a post a number of weeks ago, however i decided to give things another try, only to fail again, miserably.
 The problem i am having is a complete lack in will power and motivation, i guess if i give you the full picture it will be a lot easier for you to advise me, so here it goes.
 Im a 20 year old male from a lower class upbringing, im currently unemployed but have been through school and college, next year i plan to progress to university (after my gap year). I don’t receive money off the government as i make money on ebay, so can afford to live and pay my parents board money. From selling on ebay i make quite lucrative living, more than my friends who are working from 9 till 5 every week day. My current days involve lounging around the house, watching tv and dvds.
 Now i understand this may just sound like laziness, however i know im not lazy, its motivation i just don’t have. For example in high school and college i would get really behind with my work and just not have the drive to get it done, id always find myself saying to myself “do it tomorrow”, “do it at 7.00” 7 comes “do it at 7.30” etc etc and nothing would get done. However at the very last minute when i know it NEEDS to be done i would do it, staying up for two days without sleep etc, purely because i know if i don’t, there’s going to be trouble from teachers and parents. Another example is that i started going to the gym around 3 years ago, at first when i went i wouldn’t get much done and wouldn’t be willing to put my body through much pain at all. After a year and a half of not doing much i suddenly got right into it, giving it everything i had, going 3 times a week and using a full diet plan, this lasted for a year upto the point where i went on holiday (i presume the drive for me was to get into shape for the holiday). After the holiday i didn’t return to the gym and now i find myself back at square one, not having the motivation to get going again, even though i have my holiday booked for the same time next year.
Its not only the gym i lack motivation and will power with, its mostly everything. I have the means to make alot of money and be a successful person, however i just never do it, i always devise things in my head at do and they just never get done. I don’t even understand why, i get so worked up with myself over it, as i want to have a future and i want to be a success.
 So why do i have so little drive and motivation guys? What is it thats holding me back and making my life unfulfilling and depressing? I have no reason to be like this, i have a loving family, a girlfriend and enough money to live a stable life.
Im hoping i can get some help here, ive visited my doctor only to be told there was nothing he could do for me and i didn’t need counselling etc.
 I have another slight social problems and a tad of depression, but i believe it all accumulates from this.
 Many thanks for reading.
 Michael