Hello, 
I fear my boyfriend has BPD or some other emotional disorder. He is 30 years old and did tell me that he has molested as a child, though I am not sure which details are true or not because he has been known to make up stories. We have been together over 2 years so I would say I know him fairly well. I will start from the beginning with his behaviors. From the get go, I noticed extreme mood swings. In an instant, if I said or did the wrong thing he would switch, most of the time turned to anger. He is verbally abusive during these times and takes no responsibility for himself. He seems to have difficulty focusing on tasks for any period of time and only likes to do or talk about things he is interested in. He has been paranoid for most of the relationship about my checking out other people or trying to flirt with them, etc. He is not responsible with money at all and has no problem spending large amounts even though he does not have any. His parents recently paid off all of his debts for him because of his sprees. He seems to be sexually aroused at all times and becomes extremely angry if I am not interested, and makes me feel dysfunctional. He has also been physically abusive to our cats. He seems to justify all of his behaviors and if I disagree with him, he becomes more angry and more abusive. There is much more to this, but I feel these are the biggest things to mention. He never wants me to go out, yet he is fine with doing things himself. I am really concerned that this is more than just a control issue. I know this is a really long question, but I don't know where else to turn. Also, keep in mind that he is completely unopen to the idea that something is wrong with him. He believes that all women are crazy and accuses me of being irrational and sensitive. It seems that fights always start because I do not agree with him and he does not get his way. Is this just a selfish, manipulative person or is something else going on? Also, at one time he told me his father was bipolar but has never sought treatment for it. Please help.