I have no hope at all, people tell me I am never going to get better because my symptoms are too severe and have too much of an impact on my day to day behaviour. I've tried to live a normal life but it fails and fails over and over again. I just want to hear some success stories, so I can have some hope that one day I'll be able to cope with this condition.
 I just want normal things: to be successful, to be happy, in love, have my own family, have a good career. I cant seem to get any of those things though. I seem to fail at everything I try at and people end up telling me to just give up. I don't know if I have any self confidence left anymore. Even my own family tell me to just give up.  People love me at first but then just leave or end up hating me. 
 I cant seem to stop self harming as a way of coping and everyone just gets angry at me for it but I feel like I don't know any other way of coping, I've tried so hard I have healing books, loads of them, I have a high dose of medication, I see doc and psychiatrist regular and I go to weekly therapy DBT sessions and use samaritans, nothing helps though. Does that mean I can't be fixed?
 I can't seem to let go of that inner bully in my head that can crush me so easily. I had  meltdown tonight and I wanted some comfort but all my family could do was be mad at me for not coping, telling me I need to deal with the harshness of life otherwise ill get nowhere. How is that supposed to make me feel any better. I cant eat, I can hardly sleep, I feel suicidal at least once every month and take dangerous risks when I'm not in control. 
 I even started smoking weed to calm me down and it helped for ages till I couldn't get it anymore. I just want to be proud of myself and get somewhere, make something of myself instead of being this ill out of control 24 year old who's stll at college. I went to uni and got a degree but it's pretty useless to me, so I went back to college to do drama. I feel like it's really important to me and I try so hard but I think maybe I end up putting too much pressure on myself. It's only because I'm so desperate to do well though and make my family proud of me.
 I don't know what to do anymore. I'd really appreciate it if someone could prove to me that actually it is possible to heal, as I feel like I've lost all hope and my life is pointless and may as well end. If someone was as ****** up as me now, but got better then maybe I won't feel so desparing. I just want to fight it but how can I with no hope? so please anyone, tell me it's possible.