I am new to these forums and I am very confused about a relationship that I was in with a BPD that has just ended. What's confusing to me is that in all the literature and all the posts I have read the BPD has this "I hate you, don't leave me trait" but in my relationship, the BPD has left ME many times  (for another woman) Has anyone else had this experience? Below is my story. I'm sorry it's rather long
 I was in a relationship with a BPD for almost two years. He started cheating on me a little over a year into the relationship.  Basically what he had been doing towards the end was “alternating” between me and this other women (she knew about me). Sometimes it would just be for a few days, then a few weeks, then he would spend a month with me, a month with her, etc. Each time he dumped me for her I would eventually contact him because not only was I hurt but I was dumbfounded. When he was with me, he would tell me he loved me with all his heart and soul, he couldn’t bear to be without me, he never loved her, wasn’t even attracted to her, he only went with her because “he felt he couldn’t have me” and was trying to bury his feelings for me etc. etc.  Things would be all right for a while  And then poof!  Out of nowhere, he would go beserk and say that he hated me and didn’t want to be with me ever again – and in the meantime, I would usually find out, by the time he exploded, he had already hooked up with the other woman before he broke up with me. Now I am finding out, through Facebook that he is declaring his “undying love” for her, even though he told me he couldn’t even bring himself to say “I love you” to her because he didn’t mean it.  We were planning to move in together and eventually marry since very early in the relationship (he came on like gangbusters).  By the way, I was recently separated when I met him and now I am divorced and my marriage was NOTHING like this!!
 In all the other posts I read and in all the BPD literature, they describe the BPD as having the “I hate you, don’t leave me” trait. And they are the ones who beg the Non BPD not to leave. So what I don’t understand is “him leaving me” – although when he does leave me, he is never alone – he is with the other woman.
He does not admit he has BPD and therefore will not seek help – instead he blames me for all the horrible things he does to me – even the cheating - he says that he does it to me  because I deserve it and I make him crazy. The reason I believe he has BPD (Besides all the behavior I’ve listed)   is because I brought him to my therapist for a 2 hour session, and after meeting with him for two hours, and through all I have told her about our relationship over the last 2 years,  she says she is sure he has BPD. She has 40 years experience and is well respected in the mental health field, and she says there is no doubt in her mind that he has severe BPD. When I read books about BPD and I read these posts, I can relate to everything I read. And his behavior is exactly like what everyone else is describing - with one difference – he’s the one that kept leaving!! Although whenever he left me, he was never alone.  So this time, it has been a little over a month, and I am not contacting him, asking him to explain his behavior. Because all the literature says to cut off all contact with the BPD. But what I don’t understand is how if he has BPD – he left me, when with all the literature and all the posts it seems like it would be the other way around! I still want him back, believe it or not, because I want the man back that I first met – the one who put me on a pedestal. But at this point because I am the hurt and desperate one – I feel like I am the one that’s crazy!!  Has anyone else ever had this experience – where the BPD left them for someone else?