I and my ex girlfriend were together for 5 months.. and before that we were friends for like 6 months..
 we had first met at a bar and had few drinks with different people.
 we were friends until she told me that she was in love with me. i liked her too, so we have started having a relationship.
 we slept on the first night we went out as a "couple",
 on that night she told me things like "it's my first time sleeping in a motel with a guy"
 on other days somethings like "usually i feel uncomfortable when a person stays too close to me, but you are different"
 so based on these questions, i've built up an image of her that she probably has similar sexual values and that we can build up trust also about the past.
 i was curious and asked her when her last kiss with a guy was before our relationship. she immediately asked me  back, and i gave her my answer, which was two months before we started going out, with a girl i met at a bar. then she reacted with "how can you kiss a girl you have just met? i didn't kiss anyone for a year before our relationship" 
 some weeks later, when we were visiting me(i was abroad for few months), i asked when her last sex was before our relationship. she refused answer.. that was really confusing for me, if it was true what she had told me before, there couldn't be any problem if she told me the truth.. so i kept asking her why she can't tell, whether she was hiding something.. and the she answered that her last sex was two months before our relationship, which made her first statement about her last kiss... a lie.. i couldn't handle the the fact she was lying.... and beside that, i had the feeling she was still lying.. because her story was just ridiculous, and one can sense it when somebody is lying.. so i begged her not to lie.. after few days of disputes, when i feeling that i was getting mentally ill because of this, she told me part of the truth.. she had a ons with one of the guy from the bar we had first met.... i had also some conversations with him, i had bought including him and her, everybody vodka shots.. so it was a huge shock..she said it was her first ons ever. now i started to have some kind of inferior feelings.. on top of feelings of betrayal.. images of how she was having sex with a complete stranger were running through my head the whole time. Suddenly having sex with her didn't have any meanings. then just before when she was leaving to our hometown, she told another story.. she had another ons with a guy she had met during a trip in thailand, ca. a month before she said that she loved me.
 she broke up then when she went back to our hometown, a year has passed after our breakup, she wanted to talk to me and then started saying that she had done nothing wrong and why i had to ask those stuffs.. i was missing her, and also i felt a little sorry for what happend, so i apologized to her for some of the things i've said or asked when i was disappointed, feeling inferior and betrayed. We talked a little about what had happened and we started talking everyday.. but what i thought i have long forgotten, kept coming back. quesions.. images..
 there are 2 big differences that divide us..
 1. Lies.. for me, there were too many lies. our relationship was built on lies. For her, it was her privacy and past. she didn't know why i was asking that. Oddly, we both seem to believe that the pasts shape one's view, moral, personality etc. so that's the reason why for me past is important, for her past is not imporant because i should love her as she is now and not judge based on the past.. but how could i trust somebody for anything, if she was telling me lies? how can i be sure if she was not cheating on me? 
 2. ONS. I feel everybody has the right to choose what kind of sex life one wants to have. but for every choice one makes, there are consequences.. i think one should be aware of that before making choices. As for me,  i know that i don't like one night stands, i never had one, although i had opportunities, it just didn't feel right. so i want to meet someone who doesn't have ons so easily. but i also understand that everybody has pasts, i am capable to accept that my partner had ons if they are honest enough to tell me and through that when i can be sure that she had that phase of life behind her.. but my girlfriend was having ons shortly before we started our relationship, even she admits that she was in love with me that time. how can i be sure she won't do it again? should i trust her blindly?
 I still love her, but at the same time i don't have the trust and respect i had before. we are both willing to give our relationship a second chance, but she doesn't understand my stance. i do understand her stance and view on this matter. i am not sure whether we can have a relationship in this situation and don't know what to do.. if we talk about this issue again, we'll hurt each other again, because of the differences mentioned above. 
 what should i do..? what is the best methodology to resolve these kinds of conflicts..?