Hello,
Im a 37 years old male.
Been jobless for 2 years plus now, single, passed through very rough time time lately, from family problems to daily routine, to living in a stressful country, to being indoors most of the time.
Photography and being online were or are my inly escapade.
In the last couple of years I have suffered derealization,which lasted with me for a good 3 months.
And it relapsed a year later for a short while.
Im normally a very anxious person, and worry a damn lot about the slightest thing. Being it silly or important.
It all started about a month ago, when i read news about a lady, you passed away of sudden cardiac arrest, where my worries started, and started getting scare that this will happen to me...my anxiety increased to an extent that i couldn't sleep properly anymore, and started researching heart attacks and symptoms and statistics left right and center...till after 2 weeks i had a hypo tension, and heart started  racing, dry mouth, fear, i was rushed to the ER, where they did EKG, and blood tests and everything was normal. I was told it was an anxiety attack.
That night i quit smoking, i visited a neurologist who told me that i have depression syndromes, and he gave  me magnesium and calcium supplements and Deanxit.
I preferred taking 0.25 mg Xanax at night instead of the Deanxit, especially after reading that was banned in several countries in the world.
My anxiety or worries didnt come to an end, i visited a cardiologist, he did EKG and eco tests for me, and ordered some blood test.
It was when the anxiety excelled to be come hypochondria and depression
I get dizzy foggy headed, fatigues, cant concentrate much, and of course worry a lot. In a way, that i feel it controlling my life.
Till i got my other anxiety attack that took me to the doctor again, who told me that my tests are normal, and my dizziness if is mid ear infection...he prescribed me again, deanxit, venoba ( vitamin b6 and b12 supplement), and vasoserc ( treats dizziness, titinus, meiners disease)
I have been on them for 5 days; im taking 1 tablet deanxit in the morning, and 3 times a day the vaoserc, 1 tablet venoba, and 0.25 mg xanax at night, as it helps me sleep.
I suffered another anxiety attack a couple of day ago, and all my muscles got tensed to an extent that my jaws started hurting the 2nd day.
Im on and off...depression mood is still here, not feeling happy, have foggy head most of the time, restless, blurred vision, hypochondriac about anything i feel, fearing death to an extent that i am becoming or became very pessimistic.in addition that the fist week after my 1st anxiety attack, i have been passing through nicotine withdrawal syndrome.
I was advised by a close friend to stop the deanxit and xanax and take cipralex instead.
I have never been this way, it ***** being this way, and im scared to be this way for long...i would really appreciate if some one who is passing through this or passed  through it, to advise me or share his experience with with me.
What is bothering me now, is the worry about my health, worry of collapsing or dying,and the very low mood i am in. At very small times in feel ok, but most of the times i am not.
Could all this be a result of my life style, and accumulated stress?
 Thank you.