Ok. I've told a few people this, but am hoping to get more advice from others. 
 Growing up, I hard a rough childhood. I never knew my biological father. He had raped my mother, and she left immediately after and never told him she was pregnant. When I was 3 months old she met the man I call father. To all outward appearances he was the perfect guy. Good looking, funny, charming. Out of the public eye he was a monster. It started when I was a year old. He would abuse me physically and emotionally. I have a memory when I was 3 of him chasing my pregnant mother and myself around the house throwing knives at us. Around the same time I also watched him tie my mother up, throw fuel on her and try to catch her on fire. 
 As I got older he focused his rage on myself and later my sister. He would punch us, kick us with steel toed boots, starve us, lock us in our room (he put the lock on the outside of the door) and eventually started to sexually abuse us. When he wanted to be at his worse he would tie us (it was just my sister and I alone with him---my mom worked 3 jobs and was never home, while he never worked) up, and slowly cut us while the other had to watch. I still have the scars on my body. He was always a monster when he had been drinking. He used to blame us for the problems we had, and said we were good for nothing trash, and that if hoped we would die. He would come in the room at night, saying he would kill us and no one would care. I used to lie in bed crying at night praying I would wake up in the morning. It would get to the point where he was even pulling us out of school for these things. No one believed us, and the cops said there wasn't enough proof for them to do anything. 
 He said we weren't good enough to look people in the face, and that as trash we had to keep our eyes downcast. Even to this day I can't look people in the face. When I was 15 we finally left, and the physical abuse stopped. But I fear the mental abuse will never stop. I'm still waking up with nightmares and can't forget what he's done. There's large parts of my past I still can't remember, and some I wish I could forget. I keep her my sisters screams echo in my head all the time, and her desperate pleas for me to help her. 
 I don't know what to do anymore, or who to turn to. I don't want to live with these memories, but I don't want to leave my family either. Suicide is a selfish way out to me, but I can't stop the thought process. I've seen therapists and I've been on medicines once and nothing worked. Please, anything you can say to try and help me to move on. It's destroying my adulthood and my relationships. It's not fair that I'm still paying the price for what he did to me as a child. 
 I'm not asking for medicine help or anything, just support and/or advice. And please, don't say God will make it better. I mean no offense to those who believe, it's just not something I personally believe in.