Hello, I'm 17 and a male. Is this likely to be cancer?
 Sometime in early Febuary of 2015, I got a headache. As a few days went by it never went away and began to get worse, ears ringings, blurred/darkened vision. About a month passed and then I began experiencing numbness in my right side limbs. (My hand went numb in school). Then a few days and my leg went numb, and these continued, a few times a week, and rarely more than once/both in the same day. Somewhere during that period of time my left side also started, but only tingling, not numbness. I began to go to the school nurse daily and they started treating me as if I had a concussion until they had word from doctors. I began to get removed from classes, sports, activities. The headaches continue to get considerably worse throughout. I went to family doctor, and he set me up for a CT Scan. About a week prior I had an eye doctor appointment for new glasses, and I failed my visual field test miserably. They brought me back in, the day before the CT, and I failed again. They looked in and saw nothing in my eye, but were eager to tell me to seek a doctor. The CT scan came up with no results and I got no calls for a new appointment, so I called my family doctor and he sent me to a physical therapist for neck pain. My neck paid was very low, but I guess he was just covering all bases. It did nothing for me, but she wrote a big report for my file seeking help because she thought I needed it. We eventually called again, for a new appointment, and we got set on a 2 month waiting list for a Neurological Evaluation on 7-21. I waited impatiently hoping for my help as my condition worsened. It woke me up at night, the headaches amplified, I couldn't even play basketball outside anymore, It makes me super miserable and I'm always yelling at my family, and I feel so sorry, it's like I can't control my mood anymore. I was forced to quit summer spring and summer sports. I even dropped a class as I couldn't concentrate in school at all anymore, and memory was becoming an issue. My nurses, guidance counselors, and teachers were all caring, and hoping to hear something back on what was wrong with me, but I got a 90 day wait. I finally had the appointment now 2 days ago. The doctor thinks my condition is Migraine Headaches and Ordered an MRI for my Brain and Neck. I was also put on 25MG nightly Topamax, which so far has had no effect, but It's only been 2 days. I am writing this because I'm desperate. I have a feeling my cheap insurance won't approve the MRI, just like they denied it earlier. My next appointment is over a month away, and I can't handle these wait times. Everything is getting worse by day now. I felt nausea occasionally throughout the past 5, nearly 6 months. and it's becoming more frequent. I didn't mention this to my doctor, but it's gotten worse today. I think Migraines/Headaches is a bit of an understatement. I'm seeking help, please. I'm scared. I can't do another school year like this, I'll fail.
 Thank you in advance, and sorry for the jumble, I'm not the best writer organizer.