On New Years day of 2012 I came down with pneumonia which happened to turn septic. Septicemia is one of the worst things a human being can get, and I almost died because I went into septic shock. My blood pressure dropped to 67/33 and my blood oxygen level was around 84, both very low. The next four days are a blur as they were spent in the Intensive Care Unit. Well, after I.C.U. I was put into a regular room. I received one visitor, my Mother, who didn't even let anyone in my family know I was even sick. For months this has bothered me greatly. There is a bit more to the story. The night I got very sick I was living with my Sister in Law and her son, my nephew. It was clear to him I needed an ambulance, but my Sister in Law thought that, given my history, I was taking drugs, although I had quit many years prior. So, she called my Mom, who immediately jumped to the same conclusion. Therefore, neither one called 911, so finally my Nephew, God bless his soul, called and saved my life. Now the first words out of my Mom's mouth, when I regained consciousness, weren't something like "how are you doing son?", no it was "there is no need to be mad." When I asked why nobody was visiting or calling me she said "don't be so selfish." Now, I understand fully I have Borderline Personality Disorder. I have been diagnosed twice and have every single symptom, but I don't think I am going overboard in thinking I really got screwed here. She purposely didn't tell family because she was embarrassed over the fact she screwed up and almost killed me. So, I am the one who had to suffer for it. The utter lack of compassion (because I felt my family had essentially abandoned me) drove me to attempt suicide and drove me to seek refuge in yet another psych ward. Now I am battling a host of things, from BPD to Bipolar 2 to Fibromyalgia to what I suspect is Lyme's Disease (I was bit by a tick and got the bulls eye rash). I have arthritis in my back, hips, knees, shoulders, neck, and hands.  I don't want somebody's pity attention, I just want to be treated like real family. Am I being overly expectant here, or does this seem messed up to you too?