Im 17 years old and i was abused a week after my birthday, fun huh? I decided to drink and when i was way out of my mind i called him up and he picked me up. We parked outside of his house and talked for a bit. When i least expected it he had unzipped his pants and was holding his penis out at me. I told him no, nothings gonna happen. Put it way. He insisted and started kissing my face encouraging me to wanna have sex, but i knew my condition and kept saying no. He then got on top of me and started pulling down on my sweats, when i least knew it they were off. I put my hands over my underwear telling him no, stop i dont want to. Just stop. But he kept inisisting still. He kept trying to move my hands off but i tried hard and he grabbed ahold of my wrists with one hand while with the other he pulled my underwear to the side and tried to put it in. I squirmed around so he wouldnt but he just wouldnt stop. I went into a shock and basically let him go on. It wasnt for long probably only 15 mins and it was over. It actually hurt me because im not a sexually active person so i was pretty tight at the moment . After he was done and got off, i just said take me home. I stayed quiet for 4 months until i found out i was pregnant.... when i told my mom she was infuriated and wanted him dead for taking advantage of me that way after saying no many times. She pressed charges on him and we are now on case to see what charges he will be recieving. He knew i was pregnant a day before my mom found out,but now that he knows charges are being pressed hes been denying it all. He claims that im just a ***** who ***** around alot and that hes not the father . Im 100% sure he is because he was the only one who touched me a week after i had gotten off my period. Its obvious it was him and no one else. I am now 9 months pregnant and my mother has been my partner thru it all. Without her i wouldve possibly gone into a deep depression and tried hurting myself and the baby. I hate knowing hes the father, but i love the feeling of my baby inside and thats the only thing that has kept me going. Soon ill be induced to have my baby here and i pray to god that he smacks karma so hard across his face when he sees the dna test come out 99% true . Im praying he gets many jail years because not only has he hurt me physically and emotionally, but also my baby who had no fault being made at this point. I dont regret my baby, im just infuriated that because of some jerks fault who couldnt take no for an answer my baby has to grow up without a father and even having that ******* blood in him. Please have my case in your prayers so that justice is made and he gets what he deserves. Also for all those teen girls out there to be careful who theyre around when drinking because any ******* will take that as an advantage to get lucky. I will forever hold this nightmare in my head, but ill always keep a smile on my face so my baby sees how happy mommy is even at a young age. Thank you for reading my story. <3