For more than 20 years I've been repeating and repeating an unhealthy behavior towards myself. It usually revolves around a job and a direction in life. 
 I'm a fairly intelligent person, but I seem to destroy all the good things I make happen in my life. I can't tell you how many jobs I've thrown away. I would make excuses about why I didn't want to work there anymore, usually surrounding anxiety issues or boredom. It's affecting all areas of my life now. I'm 44 years old and can't take care of myself because I keep destroying the good things I bring into my life. 
 I just recently threw away yet another incredible job. Making more money than ever, in a great location, easy work with minimal supervision, etc. I kept getting anxious and finding excuses to call in sick or leave early. I finally got to the point where I was on my final warning. Usually, when I get to that point, the self-sabotage behavior can ebb somewhat. But I usually end up pushing myself that last few inches and fall over the edge and lose the job. 
 Why do I do this to myself? I don't have the ability to see a counselor, as I have no insurance. I get panic attacks, severe anxiety and other health issues from this lifestyle. 
 I had a love/hate relationship with my father most of my life. He died in 2002 and we had just started getting to know how to like each other. Mom died in 1993 and I felt helpless during the whole 6 month collapse of her life. But my self-sabotaging behavior seems to have started even before that. 
 I am a gay man as well. I consider myself very fortunate in that I never went through the self-hatred and internal struggle a lot of gay people seem to face. Or am I attacking myself in other ways? I look at it like this. I didn't ask to be a gay man, nor could I pinpoint the exact time in my life I decided to be gay. It doesn't work that way. I believe firmly that I was born this way and there is nothing I can do about it. I am not ashamed of being gay. I don't feel the need to broadcast it to the world, but if asked, I will be honest about it 100% of the time. Could this be a part of my self-sabotage somehow?
 Today I have an interview for a nothing job here in NJ. I've already missed the bus I need to get there on time. Needless to say, I've blown yet another opportunity to do better for myself. Luckily I have someone I am living with that is taking care of me: my partner. He and I broke up over this in March, when I moved to Arizona and managed to keep a job about 9 months before ruining it all again. Fortunately, he took me back three weeks ago and I didn't become homeless over it.
 My whole family has written me off as a hopeless case. They don't understand me, they don't agree with my choices, etc. I have no real friends anymore either. I've managed to ruin just about every aspect of my life, including my health. I'm 320+ pounds. I have some issues with my health that are no doubt related to my behaviors. I even gave up on taking care of my oral hygiene and lost all my teeth. I don't have a way to get those fixed either, so my diet revolves around eating lots of instant mashed potatoes and the like. 
 Help me, somebody, to understand why I do this to myself.