I just wanted to tell me story of experience with effexor, so that other's may find some answers and understanding in it.  I had been on lexapro 20mg w/ 1.5mg klonopin/day and in October, I was having a seasonal crash and went to my doctor for help - He put me on 75mg Effexor ER right away, and within a week I was getting weird - Tweak'n so hard on stupid things like I'd done some bad speed.  And from there it just got worse - anxiety and aggitation that escalated into crippling panic attacks and terrible daily nausea.  I was flipping out on people, having peripheral visual hallucinations - lots of icky weird ****.  So I saw the doc again and he had me immediatly stop, go back on lexapro and up my klonopin to 3mg/day.  I was able to go to work for a couple days (heavily sedated) and then I had a full blown mental breakdown.  I want everyone to know just how bad the withdrawls from that drug are.  I've kicked heroin several times, and even kicked 110mg methadon ct in jail for five months, so I have a good basis for comparison.  The Effexor wd was so f'n horrendous - I'd become totally dissociated from and absolutely terrified of reality, ontop of being physically sick (lot's of nausea and weakness).  The 3mg klonopin seemed like a placebo - wasn't even touch'n the wd symps.  My boss told me to take leave from work for two weeks, so I just closed myself in my house and tried to endure.  So f'n awful and the strange thing was the symptoms never lessened - day to day continued with the same intensity - that was scary bc it seemed like it might never go away,  and then on day 19 it was like I'd been injected with the antidote, and suddenly felt 50% better - next day 75% - and then the next totally back to normal.  It's very bizare - I have to tell anyone that this wd is so awful and icky - be prepared to suffer and be bed ridden.  On that first day I started feeling better, I still took the 3mg klonopin and was floored - they were working again - now just a couple days later 2mg is plenty - I want to stay there for another month just in case a second wave hits.
 Now my analysis - I premise this by saying that I'm a biochemist (who blew it all and took my skills/knowledge down the wrong path manufacturing Methamphetamine), and I've also done extensive reading and research in the DSMR to understand mental illnesses.  Amphetamine and Cocaine work by binding to receptors in the brain and causing a massive release of dopamine and norepinephrine into your CNS - another fact schitzos are the way they are bc their brains are constantly pumping too much dopamine into the system - Now theirs an acknowledged condition in the DSMR known as "Amphetamine induced Psychosis" - caused by using too much speed too long and is basically a temp. state of schitzophrenia.  10 years ago, I ended a five year run as a speed freak and at the end I was injecting it everday in ridiculous dosages - I slipped into a very bad sustained state of AIS, and it seems that I did brain damage - I cannot tolerate any stimulants at all anymore, and have to be constantly medicated with benzos to chill me out.  Now check this out - Effexor works as a reuptake inhibitor and causes large amounts of dopamine, norep., and seratonin to build up in your brain - simulating the effect of being on speed exactly.  Now I knew this going into it and worried that I might be playing with fire, but figured it had to be safe - It's a perscription pharmaceutical approved by the FDA.  That **** is so f'n powerful - It's NO joke.  The company Wyeth knows it too, has for 8yrs, but won't let on to it, because they're making millions of dollars selling a super hightech legallized speed and calling it an antipressant.  So in conclusion - no SSNRI can work for me, since I can no longer tolerate heightened dopamine or norep. levels, and I'd assume the same for anyone else whose abused stimulants (not coffee lol) or has a prexisting anxiety condition.  I hope all this info is helpful for anyone stuck in this mess - just understanding whats happening sometimes helps - and once again 20days and the worst was over.
 Justin