Hi All,
 Just want to share something, it eager me to wrote my situation hoping that somehow i could find comfort.
 We have been married with my husband since 2009, but we've been together as lover since 2002.He is not closed to his family for some reason, his auntie's are the one who took good care and raised him during his high school days and even his college days. So when we got married only my Father who attended our civil wedding and no representatives from his side.. 
 To introduce my family background, i was raised with my family as a loving and respectful person. I could say that we have raised to be so closed to our sibblings, which opposite to my husband family background. 
 We got married our story tells a lot we are both happy though i dont have any communication to his family or to my mother and father inlaw, i dont have any chance to celebrate any special occassions to his family since he doesn't want too. But in my family side he is close i mean have a chance to minggle and even he love so much my niece. I'm so closed with my sister she is married also and his husband is a seaferer too, but when my sister,niece and his husband decided to migrate my sister asking me a favor to manage his business , at first my husband has agreed with it but later on he stop me from doing it. I feel sorry to my sister infact they fought for each other thru net since my sister is already migrated. I'm not happy to this situation my husband told me not to involve or even accept any favor from my sister wants me to do. I hate my husband for doing this infact he changed his attitude he usually yield at me even in a small thing he shouted me at say verbal abuse. i feel that he doesnt love me anymore. But now he went back to the vessel the way he treated me is some thing that there was no issue happened he is sweet but if we talk about my sister he get mad. An act as different person. He is happy if i have no communication with my sibblings.. he doesn't like family gathering ,,, its so hard how to patch things into happy family like before. Thanks for reading