.Hy! I am new inthis country, about 5 years, sorry for the bad english ; ) 
I am meeried 5 years ago. I met my husband here and we gat married after 3 months. We "survive" all this six years, and we have a beautiful daugther (3 year old). Since he was my boyfriend we just to fight and was olnly him yelling me and i just to cry all the time, I dont remember the reason of the fights. After my duagther was born, i start answer him back, becasue it was hard for me to stay silence and him yelling all the time. he always say when he is mad that sionce she is born everything change, all his life, and he say that i change also, that my life is her, but i think of course is our daughter! I make his breakftas everymorning, work fulltime, and study for my licensed in diet technitian! i wake up at 5.30am and go to sleep at 10.3 or 11am I try to do everything i can so he is happy, he alway complain about life thta he is tired. He is angry when my daughter prefer to be with me than with him for go to bed, or to brush the teeth. i think of course if you are roud she never would like to be with you. she love him, but she almost never look for him. yesterday night she didnt want to have her pijamas with him and was calling me and I was trying to be ready with me so i could go with her. At one moment  my husband (that was her ) start screaming : "stop!! don't scream anymore,you are going to stay here alone, your mother is not the only one here!!" and she start crying laughter and calling for me. then i went to the room I hold her and calm here. I told him, you don't need to scream that way, she is scarry about you!! about the way thta you talk!! and than  he scream to her "you are a liar!" and i was what???? why do you say thta???? he tough, I dont know how, she was saying that he was doing something to her, but she only was crying because she want that i put her pijamas and than he scarry her screaming so laut. I just sleep with because i was a little bit scared for both. I have all my passport adn resident card, and i start saving some money in another acount that onlu i have access, becasue i never how its going to end the fights. if i answer him back he start getting mroe mad and he said allways : " if it would not be for me where would you be in your country??". the last time that i answer him back " i am the one that have BS not you", it was the only time that i said somethign to him like thta, but i am just sick of how he turns, if i try to talk or to say honey clam down we talk tommorrow when you are calm, he continue talking, it is really hard to talk i have to talk very laut too so i can say something. I even have him recorded on my phone \, becasue i don't now at this point if it is just normal fights or verbal abuse?? 
we went to counseling and he alwasy said we are fine is just the stress, but we work together to make this work, and i am like what???? i am the one that do everything at home and work fulltime, pay bills, study everything!! he only work and thats it. but if I say something he would fight so bad at home, and i am scared it could something happen. he never do anything to me or to my daughter physical but verbal he had told, stupid, i need to look for a better woman, you are nothign here, you are the one that humilied me etc... 
at the end i fill sad for him, and i think on my daughter, i dont want to take out her family.... 
what should i do???help me .