I was diagnoised 10 years ago with Bipolar Disorder I (with pyschotic tendancies) BPD, and PTSD and also Self-Harm. Between the ages of 12-18 I was hospitialized 18 times for suicide attempts. The last time knocked some sense into me and I haven't been hospitalized or even seen a Doc. since. I stopped taking my meds and decided I could fight everything alone. I have done well, really, but I can feel myself being drug down again. 1st let me tell you a little about my history. 
 My father has used me as a sex toy since the age of at least 4 (thats my earliest memory) I had a forced abortion at age 14 obviously he could get in big trouble if people knew I was pregnant. Umm, I can no longer have children because they did something to my Uterus, now I am permanitly infertial. I ran away from home 3 times and was placed in Canadian Prision for trying to cross the border illegally. I was involved in a gang and had things done to me that I didn't want done, but it didn't matter, I also watched them toture another girl that they kept in the closet, I got out and called the cops and saved her life and my own, they sent me to a Homeless Shelter far away from my hometown and I was allowed no contact with anyone, thats when I got real deep into drugs and alcohol, became addicted to Heroin at 18 began prostituting then was caught and placed in rehab 4 times. I watched my cousin shoot himself in a game of Russian Rouliette, he was 16 years old and it killed him. My mom is a cop and my father a minister. I am the screw up and always have been.
 K, now that you know some of my history. I still self harm. I am no longer on Heroin, maybe a little pot and some coke every now and again, but no real issues. I don't take any pysch meds anymore, but I feel like I am drowning. I have a great job, a really nice apartment, a great roomate. I don't talk much to people, i am somewhat anti-social, i kinda shut myself out from the world, but things are different here lately. I have always struggled with suicidal thoughts so I am not sure when is the time to tell someone. I don't want people to think I have relapsed. Everyone in my life thinks I have been doing great, I have been lying to everyone. Some things have happened here recently that really add into why I feel the way I do, but there is nothing that I can do about it, my hands are tied. And I hate being so defensless. Anyways, my question is how do you know when you have reached the point of needing inpatient treatment????