I recently tested for Epstein-Barr as I have read from some sources it might link to being vulnerable for serious conditions, and can be a trigger leading to Hashimotos, which I already have (hypothyroid). My recent experience with that will be a topic of a separate question re Cytomel/meds issues..catching up my posts. 
 I had a very unusual result from the EBV test (see below).
 I believe this might be a red flag re my immune condition. I had some other unusual test results in 2009 re blood cell counts, and thyroid (not available at this writing), leading to my being monitored for a year by a cancer specialist 2009-10, due to those tests and a family history of lymphoma. 
 My primary care dr did not consider the EBV test result to be concerning-she said: .."consistent with prior (old) exposure to EBV-but not active. I don;t think that is what is causing your symptoms." I will be getting back to her soon- about seeing a specialist to further evaluate this-I'm hoping someone could comment soon.  
 I'm wondering if anyone else has had experience with or info re very high EBV findings, especially in an autoimmune situation-is a gateway/or flag about cancer/more serious conditions?  Autoimmunity seems like it could be a factor as well in the picture.
 I'm aware Epstein-Barr itself is not considered serious-my concern remains whether this is a high marker of compromised immunity which I should take counteractive measures for.  I haven't ever taken an Epstein-Barr test- I was diagnosed in a different way for autoimmunity.I also know Epstein-Barr per se isn't "treatable.".  
 If this seems a little far-fetched, I'm open to comments about that too--I've been taking the better safe than sorry approach-- I'm working to get more up to speed about this and to help with my communications with my primary care physician re getting a referral to a hemotologist/oncology in the cancer center I was being monitored in 2009-10 for further eval. A new referral is required. As you can read, I've been pretty worried about this.
 The full test results follow- the first one is the one that is concerning me.
 Epstein Barr Virus Panel:   4 separate results:
1.  Epstein-Barr Virus Ab to Nuclear Ag.IgG:   My Value:    278.0 U/mL 
                                                  Test Standard Range: 0-21.9 U/mL
   
Interpretive Information with test result: 22.0 U/mL or greater..Detected
Below either not detected or indeterminate with recommended retest.
 2. Epstein-Barr Antibody to VCA IGG:              MyValue:      20.1 U/mL
                                                   Test Standard Range: 0.0-21.9 U/mL
    
Interpretative information with test result: 18.0-21.9                   Indeterminate...Repeat testing in 10-14 days may be helpful.                
 3. Epstein-Barr Antibody to VCA IGM              My Value:       Less than 10.0
                                                    Test Standard Range:   0,0-43,9 U/mL
 Interpretative Information with test result:    35.9 U/mL  or less...not detected
 4. EB Virus ABV to early (D) AG IGG:            My Value:        Less than 5.0
                                                     Test Standard Range:    0.0-10.9 U/mL
 Interpretative Information with test result:  8.9 U/mL or less...Not detected.
                                               
Sincere thanks in advance.