Hi, actually I found this site by chance as I browse to topic related to anger and decide to ask from others opinion on my case. Any suggestions and opinions would be deeply appreciated :)
 I'm 22 years old and for the last 3 years have been in a small study group  (4 members) in university. 
I got along with the other two members well, but there is this one girl which has kind of negative aura with her. For instance, during meetings she easily become offended and angry for trivial things (i.e when we unconsciously interrupted her speech), went on crying, accused us for ignoring her, and then started to show as if she was facing bigger problem than the rest of us.. whilst in fact everyone in the group faced at least the same, or even more difficult problem.. I mean, for such simple mistake like that, we could just easily tell our friends in joking manner.. not by shouting and crying which made us felt more guilty though we already apologized...
We kind of tolerate her attitude as she told us that she had been bullied during high school and we felt sorry for her.
 One time, she lost a plastic container that I lend to her but she replaced it with much smaller container, I tried to tell her to replace it with a bigger one as it was actually belongs to my relative's. But then she started to criticize me rather harshly in front of others. I tend to keep my feeling to myself, so I just remained quiet at that time, apologized, and ran off to toilet to cry after the meeting. Later on she did replace it with other container, I forgave her but somehow I cannot forget the experience. 
 After similar heated incidences (towards myself or other members), I found myself become easily irritated by her constant negative statements and slowly distanced myself by minimizing as much face to face contact as possible.
I think she gradually noticed the change in my behavior as well and confided to other members that she thought I'm childish. This forced me to kind of act nicely in front of her to avoid hurting her feelings. I know this is wrong and tiring at the same time, but the truth is I'm feeling nervous when being around her by myself (without other friends) and I'm afraid that I could suddenly lose my temper or even hurt her in a way (like slap her) which I don't know why.  Is this normal and what I'm supposed to do to control my anger in this kind of situation? 
 (additional:)
- I consider myself easy going and never harbored such strong resentment towards other people before..           
-Yes, we have told her about her attitude and I think she has also made some improvement. But somehow I cannot help myself to remember those past unpleasant events when I meet her.. I start to wonder whether this is a kind of physical conditioning..
- If it wasn't due to the study group, I think I would never even try to get along with her