I have been with my boyfriend for 2 and 1/2 years and we have been living together officially for seven months (we "lived together" unofficially the entire remainder of our relationship as I stayed at his place 24/7). When we first started seriously dating, he asked us to sit down and discuss every sexual activity we had ever done before and with whom. I was worried to tell him about all my past encounters because I knew he was a decent guy who had held out a lot (we're in college, also, so this is a big deal!) and turned down a lot of potential one-night stands because he always secretly liked me and had a feeling we would get together in the end (we were friends with chemistry first). I, however, was definitely living in the moment and had a lot more sexual encounters than him, both intercourse and fooling around alike. I was too embarrassed and ashamed to tell him half of it (if that), so I only told him about a select few. He has always acted weird about it and said that he had a bad feeling that I was lying. He caught me slipping up, giving away misleading details of nights from the past that caused him to basically force the truth out of me. This has happened many, many times and I have been caught lying about big things like the severity of a hookup to a minor makeout that I just didn't wanna tell him about. 
Now, 2 and 1/2 yrs later, I am madly in love with him. I couldn't handle lying anymore, so the other night I just blurted it out and told him the truth about every single thing I have ever done with other men in the past. He couldn't handle the truth, because my number definitely doubles his, and I am now moving out of our apartment completely devastated. I don't blame him at all for being upset because I would be too, but I am just so ashamed!!!! I feel dirty and disgusting. I have never admitted the truth of it all to myself and I am extremely depressed thinking about how my slutty past and me lying about it to him has caused me to lose the one good man I am in love with!!!! He feels like he has missed out and has said that he needs to go out and experience new things, i.e. go date and sleep with other women, and the thought of this just breaks my heart. He wants to be alone and said we might not ever get back together because he can't handle the reality of my past.