Hi - 
 My brother has been strange since he was about 15.  He seems to alternate between being very badly depressed and very very angry.  He dropped out of school and has made several attempts to go back and get some formal qualifications, but with little success.  He spent years unemployed playing computer games and smoking dope and has been diagnosed with ADD and dyslexia as an adult by various doctors, although there were no signs of either when he was in primary school (he was an avid reader and was able to spend hours playing role-playing games or writing stories).  
 We originally put his very frightening angry outbursts and depression down a reaction to marijuana.  However, he stopped smoking marijuana several years ago, and has not become less angry or less depressed.   He has had a series of very strange relationships - always with women I think he felt he was rescuing - from horrific abusive relationships, over-eating disorders or similar.  He recently got an ex-girlfriend pregnant and is now behaving more strangely than ever.  While she was pregnant he was so angry with her for 'trapping him into being a father' that it was frightening to speak to him.  He was convinced that she planned the whole thing and was determined to ruin his life.  My mother and I have both tried very hard to support him in a non-judgemental way and have independently made contact with the mother of his child to make sure that she is healthy and supported in the best way possible.  However, when my mum challenged my brother about some of the things he was saying  about his intentions re. fatherhood (he would see the kid a couple of times a year and her mother would never see a cent from him.  She could rot in a gutter as far as he was concerned. On one occasion he suggested that he could take advantage of her hormones after she had delivered the baby and trick her into thinking that he wanted to get back together with him so that he could get custody of the child) he told her he would never speak to her again and began doing some quite nasty things.  He has recently told me that I have undermined him as a father and has accused me of deliberately going around telling people that he will be a dreadful dad, undermining his credibility and setting out to ruin his relationship with his mother.  This is not true. 
 I am really worried about him and think that there may be more to this than depression and immaturity.  
 Does this sound like BPD?  I am not aware of any cutting or suicide attempts.
 Also, how should I react when he directs his anger towards me and accuses me of things that I have not done?  My impulse is to defend myself, but I don't want to make things worse.