I don't really know where to start, so I guess I'll just jump in. My wife and I had a horrible tragic fight the other night, because I saw a text on her phone and didn't know what exactly to make of it so I asked her who it was was because the message said "hey, it's Collin" there was no other context for me to work with and I was admittedly a little drunk. Any he turns out to be a harmless 19 y/o student of hers at the hospital. Things have been rocky lately because I had a fairly severe opiate addiction (almost 3 months clean now :) So of course the fight escalated waay out of control and I can certainly say now it was mostly my fault. I just adore her so much, she's my best friend, but she's been distant due to finding out about my last relapse with pills, but that has been a long time ago.  So she stated that she was taking the dogs and leaving I was so upset by the very notion of that, that I put I gun to my head I was so distraught I hadn't done all this work to get clean just to have her leave me. So she ordered me out of the house and I took my scotch and my pistol with me and spent the night out on the beach drinking until I passed out in the sand, I didn't wake up until late afternoon the next day, so I missed her leaving for work and didn't get to talk so I called her at work and very politely apologized for my terrible behavior, and she told me she wanted me to move out, a notion I find utterly unacceptable. Well as luck would have it,  she had a business conference in Vegas leaving the next day.  So I called in sick to work to be home before she left desperately attempting to repair our strained relationship with some small success she let me sleep in the bed with her the night before she left.  Well now she's home and things are looking up. I know this is a big no no but she had gone through my phone before also, so I justified looking through her search history on her iPad . Things like my husband put a gun to his head ect. Then it moved on to Bpd as the supposed cause for my behavior that one evening. So I did a little research on the subject and found that I don't believe that I have Bpd,  but what I did read on the subject I found quite alarming, basically every website on the subject said every Bpd relationship is doomed.  What the hell?  People looking for answers read that garbage and even if they only take a little bit of it to heart those words alone can be damaging.  I thought it was incredibly irresponsible that anyone would say such a thing. So now she thinks that, that's me? I'm just a normal guy I don't ask much of her maybe I'm a little clingy but it's just because I like to be with her. Even so if I want to do somthing with my friends on one of those rare days we have off she doesn't want me to go.  It's incredibly frustrating that some nameless faceless blogger would try to convince my wife that our marriage is unhealthy.  Yeah I had a drug problem and that created some marital problems but I'm clean now, and I just want her to see me for the man I am again. A loving caring honest man. Thanks alot Internet... So I'm assuming most of you have some experience with most of this, how do I make everything ok. We have built our lives around each other saving money to buy a house talking about future children. How can I show her that everything she read isn't true? For now I'm just trying to be the best me that I can be, the man she married, but she doesn't seem to see me that way anymore. Even though she says she loves me and still wants all of those things something seems to be different now, maybe it just takes time. Today was the first time we've been intimate since the fight and it was nice granted I was a little backed up considering. We're going to see the minister that married us on Thursday and I'm really looking forward to it. I just want to make her happy.  Any words of advice, and sorry I went on so long.