Hi. I'm finding this really difficult to write as it's been going on 25yrs and is hard to remember which order things happened,and which things are most relevant/important.
I'm 36 and around the age of 11 things starting going downhill for me. I've not had a friend since then. Sounds sad but in the area where I live if your not interested in alcohol(which I'm not and never have)then you do tend to lose popularity. I then found out that my penis was different to everyone else. The foreskin doesn't retract. I had no option to go to a doctor to have it seen as the surgery was a car journey away and there was no way I could get away with my parents not finding out. As I matured I developed variocelle in one testicle which I also couldn't go and have checked out. At the time,with no internet etc,I thought it was a cancer and had to live with that throughout my teens. Then in my mid teens I had juvenile myoclonic seizures. Again,I didn't go to a gp about it. The seizures took the form of arm and back jerking and also forgetting where I was or what I was doing and occurred 99 mornings out of 100,for around the first 2 hours per day. 
Ok. So that's my state going into my late teens.
I blacked out and fell down a flight of steps at 19-20 yrs of age and was found unconscious by the police. That was the only reason I was diagnosed as I was admitted to hospital and tests followed. My parents were quite happy with me being as I was.
After diagnosis and hospital and epilepsy tablets my confidence hit rock bottom. From that age until mid 20s I just did nothing as I felt I couldn't. Late 20s were no better but at least with the odd hour here and there with the internet I found out a little bit more about my conditions and treatment etc. It was well into my 20s before I found out it want cancer. At 30 I plucked up the courage to go to a go further afield than my family doctor by lying about my address. I was examined and booked into hospital. My variocelle was treated/removed in no time. I was really depressed after it and told my parents what had happened. By the end of the weekend all my family knew as my parents thought it would be ok to tell them. A different urologist the decided I didn't need the foreskin operates on. I've also stopped taking the epilepsy tablets and had no relapse. That was over 10 yrs ago.
That's basically the story. I've no job or career,and never have. No car. No money. No friends. All those things meant that when my parents told everyone I didn't have anywhere to go to get away from it,so they got away with treating me in that way. Now people take advantage of me on a daily basis as they know I won't say anything back. This includes my brother and parents and grandparents. All I do is just tick off passages of time. I was too scared to kill myself when I was 18(and time has proved I would've been right to have some it),but I just don't know what I can do. I can't claim any benefits as I would have to lie that I was looking for work and I'm not. Doctors are happy to give me a note,but I get no money for that either. So a little help or advice,or who I can talk to in the uk about this state of affairs. Thanks