Okay, so when I was about... 4 or 5 years old, my mom and my biological father were together. From what my grandmother told me, they met at a club.
I remember vague memories of my mom and biological father getting into fights. One stuck out more than any other. 
It was when i was 4 and my parents were fighting,( although i dont remember what that fight was about now) but one thing led to another and i remember my mom picking me up and running me and her into my room and locking the door. Then about 5 or 10 minutes later my dad knocks the door down and my mom hides me under the covers and punches my mom. When I look back i remember him aiming his fist at me though. 
The next day my mom and her dad (my grandfather) were talking and he was telling her that it would be safe to leave him a.s.a.p. She didn't until around a year later. That wasn't the only insident where they got into huge fights i just don't remember all the details.
But most of the time my mom would go to school and my dad would be left with me and i would be late for school because he would forget to take me.
Another thing happened where I came home from kindergarden with my friend and my dad left a note on the door and the door was locked. So since I was just in kindergarden i roamed the streets until my friend decided we go to our neighbors house. I don't know how long i was away from home but all i remember is coming out of a car and my mom screaming and crying?
Well now i am 15 and  not too long ago I made a email account  and my dad and his mother (my grandmother) found my online and emailed me. I told my mom and my step father and they took the email down and said he doesn't love me and he wants me for all the wrong reasons.
I don't know what to think because in that email my biological father said that he DID love me and all those things he did he wished he could take back... 
I feel like there is always somthing missing in my life and even though he did do wrong things and he did drugs and at the time he seemed to not care.... i still wounder what it would be like to talk to him and get to know him again?