So I'm sure this is not something shocking to hear but I honestly think that I am heading in the direction of depression. Okay so let me first start off with saying that I'm 17 and my whole life I've pretty much been codependent on other people for like happiness and stuff like that. I would always get into relationships where the other person would use me and make me feel like I'm not good enough, therefore making me think that in order to be good enough, i have to be friends with them. my mom has always told me that I am good enough and a few other people tell me that I am good enough and better than those people I used to hang with. I guess it's just because my self-esteem has always been low so I've just attracted other people into my life with low self-esteem. A lot of kids in school get the impression that I am a shy girl who is just not approachable and not friendly. Like I'm a loner or something and that I'm super shy. I get told so much that it gets better after high school and that i'll grow out of my old ways and stuff. But there's depression in my family so I know I'm definitely more at risk to become depressed. Also, I get told I'm beautiful and stuff like that but I guess I just don't care because I've never really seen it before. Like I know I'm pretty on the outside but I just don't feel good enough on the inside to let that inner beauty shine through. It's hard because I don't fit in with like anyone because I don't try and just be like everyone else and I'm above the other kids in so many ways. 
 Whenever I attempt to break out of my negativity I just find myself being pulled back in and it's the hardest thing to overcome. I'm sooo tired all the time (I have insomnia and I'm so used to going on the internet before bed), I eat really irregularly, I feel like I'm not very popular at school but like I said, I don't care about being popular....
 I wrote down some things that I could see making me more happy but the bad stuff always overtrumps it. I have a problem with bullies and people always putting me down. 
 I'm gonna talk to my dad about this because depression is on his side of the family and my mom doesn't really understand it. It's so much easier said then done to think more positively and stuff but I mean it's not like I haven't tried to....my old habits just take over my life and negativity has always just taken over everything :( I'm buried in a whole and i have no one to talk to and i just feel so confused and lost and trapped in my own mind. 
 Thank you so much for taking the time to read this ! :)