Dear all reader...
 I not sure if i am a aunt of what should we call it.. this 3 kids mother was my 2st cousin.. After my stillbirth i visit my panel Doctor for my following check up and he suggested me try to get close with family member and sharing some thoughts with them.. then this my long long never meet cousin one day give me a call and we plan to meet up somewhere for coffee and yes we did..
 So of cos Baby Aidan be the 1st topic of all and only then i begun to ask how about her...?? long story cut to short, she has divorce her hubby of 8years but her kids stay with him, but she is the one who support they financially as she get higher salary but she work different state so she seldom meet with her kids but she close and very much bonds with them..
 But then she do tell me on and off the hubby abuse them and she getting tired with drama the ex made and she also cannot tag her kids with her bcos they still so young for big city and she used to go out station different different country for her work purpose... So she decided to sake help from her sister who staying another different state to look after her 2girls and only boy bcos the sister is only staying home mom.. the sister agree but the sister do have 3kids as well and one of them has autism problem..
 Currently her 3kids live very much independent according to her.. the girls is 16&14yo teenagers and her son was 13yo, got maid come on daily basic clean they house, cooking they meal.. no adults as the father also working follow shiff... they used school bus go to school and live alone just like that.. (actually my heart so pain when hear this one) She ask my opinions will that good choice to give a try, at least her kids got proper adults to look after them.. love them.. care them and show them what this life all about.. Bcos she know her sister will do the best to guide her kids before they ruin they life, her teenagers girl used to go out and have fun and her boy its always at cyber almost all the time if no school with game all the time. She concern over they future w/out proper guide fr adults.. 
 But with all this Baby Aidan things all over my mind i hardly give good advised to her of either that will be a good choice or not.. or whatever advised i can give... i numb.. feel so bad, but i do tell her to give me sometimes and let see if i can think any good idea to share... help me to help her please...
 Thanks in advance...hugs..