I've recently gone through a breakup, which wouldn't bother me so much if I wasn't actually in love with the person but I was and I've never experienced such love for a person. The breakup is 50% of the problem because now I'm all alone all over again because I push everybody away from me in my life, but my family is another reason. I have to live with them again, and they don't understand my depression. My mother threatens to send me away because me discussing my problems to her stresses her out and she's pregnant so she says she'd rather have them deal with me because she can't. Her pushing me away just makes me feel like an even worse burden. Then, I'm forced to work when I don't even wanna leave my bed. I don't want to wake up. I don't want to socialize with my family anymore. I like being alone, but nobody understands this. They say since I already do nothing, that I should just work without complaint. That I have nothing to be sad over since I'm alive. I can't discuss my problems with any of them because they think it's only me overreacting from my breakup. They hated my ex anyways so they're glad it's over with. I loved having somebody else to be there with me every day because it was new for me, I felt loved. Now it's all gone. I hated myself before this, but now it's just worse. I've had depression since I was 15 and I'm 18 now. I've been to therapists and they never call me back after one visit so that's not helping me at all. I've gotten to a point where I don't even care about myself to reach out and help myself. I hate waking up in the mornings. My family is busy with the new baby so I felt like running off since they don't need me anymore. Don't get me wrong, I love my family and the fact that my mothers pregnant because she's been wanting this forever, but I hate the fact that they all just think I'm crazy. My uncle said I needed counseling behind my back to my ex. Everybody labels me here. I have nowhere to run off to, no money, no friends whatsoever. I feel like I'm all out of options. I've never felt so alone in my entire life. I feel like God has stopped with me because I've sinned so much. I'm hopeless. I just want somebody to give me some direction in my life. What am I supposed to do? I'm tired of feeling like this and this past month has just made it so much worse..