I'm sorry this is kinda long but I'm trying to be thorough 
 I'm a 16 year old male in high school 
 almost a month ago I smoked some potent weed. (grand daddy purple) it was a weird paint/gas like taste in my mouth. but I'm knew to smoking weed and it was like my 5th time smoking. 
 I had some great laughs for a couple of minutes but then I started freaking out. I felt like screaming but I controlled it and drank some milk and went to sleep. shiverd alot and had some closed eye visuals. the people I smoked with were fine I suppose how ever. 
The next day I felt better, but I felt trippy and cloudy for a couple of days. wich went away then I felt completely fine for a couple of weeks to a month. 
 this is where it starts.... 
 I'm laying down chillin the whole event about me trippin out has been completely forgotten! I feel light headed out of no where and feint. I had a small anxiety/panic attack wich I took a glass of water and chilled down in the shower and breathed into a small bag knowing that helps calm people down. and my right nose was bleeding. 
 went to the hospital and service took way to long so I just chilled out and went home with my mom. it was like 3:am at the hospital 
 ever since then I felt strange, akward, out-of-touch. worrying about another panic attack 
 I'v been having really small panic attacks from that. but I had got in the car with my mom and had the craziest panic attack ever! tingling body, freaking out, tightnening chest, I thought I was having a crazy heart attack or something. I went to the hospital and after a while they checked everything, saying my blood is fine, my thyroid is fine, e.t.c 
 I had a doctors appointment the next day and he told me I have a "rhino virus" wich makes me dizzy and light headed feeling and I'm just over reacting. 
 I thought to my self....was it the weed I smoked? has it been effecting my brain? is it my sub concious? do I have some sort of health defeciency? will I go crazy? I'v been feeling different lately. I don't know if it's stress, me, what the heck. withdrawl symptoms. was my weed laced? e.t.c thoughts like that 
 I was in class and felt tired and I raised my head and I felt the anxiety rush in me, and I felt like screaming and running out the class. but the thought of looking unstable in class kept me pretty calm. I went home early and took 5mg pill of a medicine a doctor prescribed to me called "diazepam" wich usually makes me tired and want to sleep if I stay still after I take it. but if im still moving around it has little effects to help. 
 lately I'v been seeing dark spots in my eye vision or what ever but my doctor said it's just something called "floaters" so I'm confused right now, I really dont want to end up like my brother. who is extremely unstable. 
 when ever I feel the Anxiety I think of my brother and he went crazy with one of my cousin (I was like a baby at this time) they'v been smoking weed from this real sketchy street. 
 I know I'm not dying Im just afraid about my sanity. extremely worried about my sanity. I noticed it increases when I'm in a car driving. 
 I'm not hearing voices. but sometimes I feel like freaking out during a anxiety attack and scream. I feel unstable at times. this isn't me. not at all. I want this out of my life permanently. 
I'm not blaming the weed and I know there are many smart and socially involved people who use weed. or people weed has helped. but I'm in a state of confusin. 
 I know there is highly intellectual people here so I came here for advice :) please help. even if you don't know anything, any kind of advice will help :) 
 I have posted this in other furoms but I got little feedback but now I found a furom that talks about stuff like this! :) 
 right now I feel dizzy, like im going to faint, kinda feels like im going to puke and I also feel kinda tired.  just a hour or so ago I had some crazy high blood pressure thing going on  or anxiety and I got into a hot and cold shower to chill down. 
 It feels like im just going to freak out during a anxiety/high blood pressure kind of thing. I don't know what to do.  a week ago my blood came up fine along with my thyroid.  but I think I should get another test because it's getting more severe