I am just coming to terms with it. It was touching by my father who died an alcoholic 11 years ago. But worse than taht was the covert sexual abuse. I was exposed to pornography when I was four. I found polaroids of my parents having sex under their bed. Why would they not hide that? Also, my dad used to masturbate to porn in the other room when I was growing up. He would wait for me to go into the kitchen and then turn it on....then turn it off when I walked back in. WTF? Like I didn't know? I was with him when he would rent them at the video store. It made me so uncomfortable. I hated him. I was so embarrassed. I was also exposed to sexual conversation- EXPLICIT, including my father forcing sex on my mother at night. I heard them. I heard them all the time. My environment was completely sexualized and there was drinking and drunkness EVERYDAY. They both drank. Once they went in their bedroom to watch porn in the middle of the day. I was about 10. I went up to ask them something and heard them talking about what was happening in the movie. They had sex in the bed next to me once in a hotel while on vacation. Mostly I heard fights about my mom not wanting sex and my father demanding it. At 13, I started taking his porn magazines and masturbating myself. It was all I knew. As a result I have not had a real relationship with anyone ever and I have been on and off drugs and abusing my addictive meds for 6 years now. It's very hard, because there was another side to him. He spoiled me badly. He gave me everything I wanted. He was kind hearted, but sexually out of control and alcoholic. He got sick with Cirrosis and I had to then watch him die a HORRIBLE painful death. It was so bad, it was worse than all the years of alcoholism and the sex stuff. I still love him. My mom is awful to me now. She has always been very passive. She never parented me. She was like a ghost. She still is. I was so mad at her for not stopping what was going on!! She was still drinking when he was dying. And the worst part is. NOBODY TALKS ABOUT ANYTHING NOW. It's like it never happened. I don't talk to my brothers. I feel like I am in another life--but an even worse hell because now I am addicted and suffering and diagnosed bipolar. I have tried to kill myself four times. Once in a total blackout. I was on a ventilator twice. I have been in and out of psych wards. THIS PAIN MUST STOP. And only I can do it.