My husband and I have been married for 7 years and we have two beautiful children. We met 13 years ago when I was a teenager working as a cashier at the neighborhood shopping plaza. He was a regular customer who would stop in on a daily basis. After years of flirting, phone calls, and missed dates we finally got together and instantly became inseperable. The connection between us was amazing. We had quite the whirlwind romance and it wasn't long before we said "I do" and our first baby was on the way. I love everything about our story and have no regrets despite what is going on now.
 My husband had an affair. But, unlike most women who find out before they file for divorce, I found out after the fact. Eleven months ago, I initially filed for divorce under the grounds of addictions and emotional abuse. My husband has gone through his share of battles with drugs and alcoholism but he had been on the right trrack for a while and seemed to be doing great. He recieved a promotion at work, our daughter was accepted into a wonderful school, and we had just celebrated our wedding anniversary with a beautiful trip. We were very happy and things seemed to be going on a roll until we got back from our trip. That is when I noticed him taking a turn for the worst.
 Last summer was my summer in hell. He began working more hours, spending nights at the bar, he grew increasingly distant with the children and I, flew off the handle for every little thing (at one point he raised a hammer at me and threattened to hit me!), became a total stranger to us. This person was not the same man that I knew. I have seen him during his darkest hours and nothing compared to this. His previous bouts with depression made life impossible and I often found myself walking on eggshells. There were nights when he would sit on the computer for 18 hours playing W.O.W.  Or he would just lay on the sofa crying his eyes out but could not explain why.  Or he'd walk around the house like a zombie with no emotions.  
 I figured that he was just under a lot of stress but I was concerned about his visits to the local bar and things really changed once he got physical with me. That is when I noticed this rage in his eyes. He has always been a very laid back person (never put his hands on me) so to see him so angry and then not be able to understand where the anger stemmed from was very difficult for our family. My mother and my husband had the ideal mother-son relationship and all of a sudden he was pushing her away too.
 We set up an appointment with our doctor who referred him to a drug/alcohol therapist.  My husband went to a few sessions and seemed to benefit from going alone although I would have liked to have attended therapy with him.  About a month into counseling my husband announces that he is bi-polar and that this therapist was referring him to an associate who specializes in mood disorders.  Not knowing much about mental illness,  I was just so relieved when I heard this diagnosis because I figured it meant that he could get the proper help and we could be happy again.  His mood swings were intolerable so I remember feeling relieved.   A few days after this my husband came home, callously announced that he was leaving, said that he was going to stay with his parents because he needed some time to think. He handed me his wallet insert with photos of the kids and said that he cannot carry it around anymore. Then he stood there and erased our family photos from his cell phone. He was doing all of this in a rush, acting very bizarre. He grabbed a box and filled it with some clothes and left without saying good bye to the children. It was a very cold exit.
 I eventually found out about the affair. Since this sad discovery my husband has been very up and down with me. One minute he is making a few attempts to assure me that it is not true. He apologized for any misunderstandings. He says that he misses me, that he feels sad that I am not next to him at night, that he feels like he is going crazy because I am no longer around. Says that I took such great care of him and that nobody could ever treat him as good as I did. Then why would he cheat on me? Last month he had the nerve to say that he still thinks of coming back home and he is just using this time to figure things out. I didnt know that there was a revolving door in my home where he can just come and go as he pleases. Then the next minute everythngis my fault, I never made him feel wanted, that I should have chased after him when he left.
 My husband has even made advances toward me twice since separating...if he has a mistress then why in the world is he doing this? (And no, he did not get anything from me! LOL). He has mentioned his thoughts of us going on vacation together after the divorce is final (huh?) and all kinds of other goofy things spew out of his mouth. None of this makes any sense. If he has any ounce of guilt or shame then then why does the mistress still exist? He cannot possibly be proud of himself.  Why isn't he working on his sobriety and being a better father to our children? Whenever he sees me he just breaks down in tears and begins to uncontrollably sob to the point where I cannot understand a word he is trying to say. Is this simply the work of a good actor?
 I no longer know what to think other than this marriage is really over. I have accepted that harsh truth and am doing everything that I can to turn this negative experience into a positive one.  Does anyone have any words of comfort, strength, wisdom, hope and encouragement for a single mommy who is slowly picking up the pieces of her life?
 Is this common with someone who is biploar?  (My husband was never further evaluated). 
 Thank you!