I'm not dumb, but am I smart?  When I look at my results I think I need to change.  You can get judged and critiqued so easily if you got left behind or lost track and that is just what happened to me.  You see I felt sick and had no motivation for schoolwork, I lost track in many subjects and I accumulated absences.  The doctors thought I was physically sick and so did I for a while.  In December I was getting really fed up, I had not been feeling well for about a year, and I wanted change.  I started thinking a lot, about what I was doing, my emotions, habits, frequencies... and came to the conclusion that I was depressed.  The problem is that you start making habits and they become hard to break.  My habits were sheltering myself by feeling sick, compulsive eating, lack of studying and putting off human interaction among many other habits.  I decided that I needed to change.  I also asked myself: why are you making a cocoon, an area of safety, a net around yourself?  I feel judged, I can't trust anybody to be honest or tell the truth and I guess I lack self-confidence.  Mostly I think everything turns around the aspect of school.  My grades are poor, I don't have much motivation and am not very close with my classmates, I feel sort of awkward, not liked... Also I have to take subjects that I have fallen behind in and do not appreciate.  How can I change, grow and suceed in such an environement?  I feel the need to move, change systems, countries, circles to be able to be myself without doubting everyone and anyone.  My parents don't seem to understand that.  You see, I moved to Switzerland when I was eight and never really felt like I fitted in.  My parents say I have the best friends I could possibly want but to me it doesn't seem like that.  I feel as if even they think thoughts of critique about me behind my back and that I can't trust them with much.
My parents have made appointments for me to see guidance counselors and a therapist.  They seem to think that paying somebody for me to talk to will completely help me out and that I have no need to move, that my project to leave is just because I'm sick of Switzerland and not because I don't fit in.  I don't feel confident enough to go to therapy because I feel as if, like in previous experiences with therapists, I will think I'm being critiqued in their mind.  I don't know what to do but I really need change.  I can hardly eat at present and I don't see a need for me to stick around in this world anymore.