I'm divorced and have joint shared physical custody of my 9 year old son (I have him for about 60% of the time).  His mother was investigated by DSS a few years ago and found to be physically abusive and neglected.  The findings were substantiated and they had her go to parenting classes.  Every few months, she tries to get more custody of him.  I believe it's because she wants state money and needs to have him at least 50% of the time to get it.  Last year, the superintendent of schools called both her and me into the school because my son had shared a conversation with the teacher about an ectopic pregnancy my ex had and he went to school and described it in graphic detail to the teacher.  The school told her that it was an inappropriate conversation to have with a child of his age.  His birthday was a couple of weeks ago and she took him to a theater that had 5 bars in it to a concert (Ozzy Osborne tribute band that was for 12+ years of age.  He was turning 9, but they let him in because she knew one of the bands.  Anyway, she's starting to want to change our divorce agreement again.  Now she says that one of his friend's father has inappropriately touched him and my son is freaked out.  This is the scenario.  He had a bruise on his thigh and she asked him about it.  She said he told her that my friend's father gave him a noogie (? sp).  She told my mother that she then had a conversation with him about inappropriate touching because it was high on his thigh.   Since she knows the family involved very well, my mother suggested she speak directly to them since my ex had the conversation with my son.  Of course she didn't want to do that because she didn't want to cause "trouble". Over the past few days he's been with me and there has been no mention of the incident from him and he even asked to go over to his friend's house.  Today she picks him up at my parent's house and leaves me a message saying that my son is freaked out about his friend's father and whether I have looked into it.  My fear is that she has planted this in his head and that this is one way to try to say that "significant circumstances" have made it necessary to change the custody agreement, which is the only reason they will change the custody agreement in Massachusetts.  I honestly don't believe that his friend's father was trying to do anything other than horsing around.  However, now it looks like her conversation may have done him a lot of harm.  When I asked him about it, he said that the bruise was high on his thigh.  I'm not sure what to do.  He does have a counselor that I brought him to when he was being abused by his mother, who is highly thought of by the court system.  The last time he saw the counselor was about a year ago when my ex wanted 50% of the custody.  My ex is the one that took him to the counselor and after talking to my son, she said she would not support any change in the custody arrangement.  The counselor doesn't share what my son says with either one of us because she would be representing him if we went back into court.  Any suggestions on a conversation I can have with my son, or should I bring him to the counselor and let her handle it as a professional?