Hello.
Basically my question is to what degree and in what forms psychotic symptoms can be present in BPD.
At 18 i got the diagnosis of schizophrenia, and now at 35 my psych sent me for a re-exam (very complete) both psych_ist and psychol_ist think the same, that I was misdiagnosed with schizophrenia and "fit very well" in with BPD. It¨s not important to me to have the right label as such, but it does change a lot of things! It can feel like good news, it can make me fel remorse about the past 15 years, it can make me think "i will never be psychotic now" and it makes a whole lot of sense in explaining the typical feelings quoted for BPD (black and white thinking, overreactions, family struture etc).
Do two criteria met in one month (ICD etc) really justify a diagnosis?? If it was right I'm certainly recovered, but apparently left with emotional issues that no psych_ist that has given me a schizophrenia diagnosis earlier bothers to explain. Any kind of feeling and behaviour derives from schizophrenia-diagnosis 18 years ago?? Or, can it be that more diagnoses of schizophrenia actually are just not seen in the light of a severe stressful period, drugs, changes and upheavels, and that shortlived pseudo-psychosis is overinterpreted? Taken to literaly, sometimes I wish I hadn't used images and subjective sincere but highly personal language to describe what i was going through back then. But then, professioals are supposed to see the core, right, not the obvoius words coming straight out without censure.
 I know this is long and unclear, but hopefully some of you have been in - and hopefully found a way out - of the same dillemma. For me anxiety is the biggest problem, and intimacy, but I would love to know what side of the spectrum this stemms from. And to medical professionals i would recommend not to "inherit" the previous doctor's statements and diagnosis ideas without reappraisal.
Oh, and another thing! Abilify has made my reality a better place, anyone experience this with BPD? And are thereany of you who drink more than a glass of wine and have trouble dealing with that and abilify, not to mention sleep problems?
 Thank anyone who¨s read all this. It's my first posting, and I am curious about this community. I hope I can contribute with good and serious answers to others.
Happy new year by the way...