I have never told my story and need to get it off my chest :(. I came out of a severely dysfunctional family. A mother who is more like a 13 year old child and a father who left. When mother got sick with cancer I took on a role that started me into a business I never imagined. All of my innocence was taken away in hopes I could support and provide to my family. I was taught that it was a child's duty to take care of our parents and siblings and I felt it was my responsibility to do so. I first married young 16 hoping I could run away from the pressure. It lasted 3 years until the guilt of running away sunk in. I was afraid to lose mom and have not been there to help. After my divorce I was 19 wet behind the ears and talked into working at a small strip club. I made a good amount of money but hated the work. A customer approached me and offered me $1000 dollars to accompany him. I was so nervous but needed the money... So I did it. We started seeing each other once a week and the money kept rolling in. 2 years go by and not only did I have a savings I had made a lover that paid me.  I have never told my story and am in tears telling it now but I can't take it anymore. I eventually decided to change my life and get a more notable income. I was a secretary at an office and failed miserably. Them I went to yoga school and also found that it wasn't for me. Bartending was next, it was very fun and probably the closest thing to happiness I had found but long hard hours wore me down. I went back to my sugar daddy arrangement always saying "if I can make $1000 and hour doing this, than why would I slave a whole week to make that much money!" 
It has been seven years and I bought my mom a house, pay her bills, and I travel sometimes by myself to exotic places just to feel free again but I'm so afraid of what I will do in my future. I have had to alienate myself from making friends in hopes no one would find out what I do. I  am a very normal looking girl and save every penny but  so hurt inside because I feel the pressure to support mom but don't know how I would if I quit. I have one client now that has be one a friend. It's been a year and he pays for everything. We often walk the Beach, talk for hours, and of course do the deed. Maybe I'm just needing to tell someone. . .
This isn't easy nor was it a question, but maybe someone out there has experienced these feelings. I wonder if what I'm doing is wrong? Even if I have good intentions. I'm so confused.