Our son is 30.  He got into heavy drugs in his early teens, has been in and out of treatment centers, detention centers, has ptsd over events he went through.  ADHD diagnosed, and has the classic signs of BPD - as well as symptoms of OCD, hyperchondria, and others.  As parents we have supported and stood with him throughout his lifetime, probably to the point of enabling rather than helping.  His drugging has resulted in his current physical problems of chronic pain, painful dental issues, mental confusion.  He is on methadone maintainence and other anxiety medication.  He has no income, cannot work due to his mental state, and as much as we love him and want him to feel at least some security, he is ruining our lives.  We are pushing 60, work full time, and yet because of all his medical/mental needs he expects us to take time off from our work days to take him to appointments which he is never ready for and therefore 99% of the time late; it takes him HOURS to get himself up and around and mentally able to get dressed, often with phone calls from his dad or me telling him to be ready when we come to get him...mostly for naught.  I am so angry at him for stealing my marriage and life day after day, and I know my husband struggles with guilt for having these feelings too.  Our son gets so angry and accusatory and verbally abusive if we don't 'caretake' him as much as he thinks we should.  If there were any way we could find a place for him to live and force him to deal with life with some income...not to abandon him, but to be able to breathe and learn to smile and have some fun together as a married couple again....and not live with stress 24 hrs a day. Is there anyone else out there who has gone through this and can give any ideas??  My husband just got a job offer for a job he would really like to take, but it entails moving to another state.....and how can we do it with all the entanglement with our son and his needs... there are days I just sit and stare at the wall because I feel so trapped.