Hello, five months I began to experience panic attacks and anxiety.  In the last year I have had what my cardiologist calls benign PVC/PACs (irregular heartbeats).  The work up on my heart has been extensive including electrocardiograms, EKGs, Holters, and Nuclear medicine stress tests, all negative for disease.  Dr. said it was benign and that I unfortunately feel them but no medication is necessary.  Because of this I became fearful and five months ago began having extreme anxiety as I stated.  I went to see a psychiatrist who placed me on Xanax and Zoloft.  About three weeks into the Zoloft I noted my hands would shake, these tremors I notice are more apparent when I am doing things with my hands, when I lay my hands flat they do not shake at all, however when I hold my hands up lets say rest the wrist on a flat surface and lift the fingers they shake. I thought it could be the Zoloft and went off of it, however the tremor continued.  I then about 3 weeks later developed muscle twitching, it was first localized to my arm or calf and then started to spread all over including; feet, arms, legs,back, face, lip, even abdomen.  I became afraid as ALS or MS kept coming up on different internet sites.  I also was working out at this time and stopped thinking it could be this.  I take a multivitamin daily, along with magnesium oxide 250 mg a day for the irregular heartbeats and just recently started taking B12 supplements assuming it could be this. I went to see a neurologist who did a full neuro exam and found nothing.  He sent me for an MRI of the brain, which was also negative except for what he called a normal variant of partial empty sella, for which I also had pitutiary hormone testing which was also negative.  He did a complete blood work and urine analysis including metabolic disorders or endocrine disorders such as RA, ANA, homocysteine levels, etc.  Everything came back normal.  I had an EMG/nerve conduction study as well in all four extremities and poked with 20 needles in different places. Also, negative.  The neuro doctor said he cannot find anything wrong me and suggested I see a psychiatrist.  I am still on xanax about 0.5 daily broken into half in the morning and half in the afternoon.  I am extremely concerned that there is something horribly wrong with me that no doctor is discovering here.  I can feel my whole arm shaking at times when posturing it like holding it against the laptop or holding myself up with my arm/hand.  I can feel twitching even in my knees, it gets worse when I am very anxious but even when I am not anxious these symptoms are still there. I am 42 yo female.