My husband was diagnosed with CLL back in 2008. He has never required treatment cause his condition has remained very stable throughout these years. He's been seeing a Dr. and attending his scheduled appointments at MD Anderson since.  Las year he started having absences and was diagnosed with partial epilepsy and was given treatment for his seizures (Keppra).  This was a good medicine because he wasn't having any secondary effects. After 6 months he started having seizures again and his treating Dr. made no changes to his medication or neither he ordered any additional tests.  We decided to start seeing a new Neurologist at the Medical Center in Houston. He ordered my husband to check in at St. Luke's for 5 days, suspecting Limbic Encephalitis , after the first MRI.  After 5 days of numerous blood tests, spinal tab, EEG, EKG, CT Scan of thorax and abdomen, no signs of anything malignant. He was released from the hospital with his new Phenytoin prescription and hasn't had seizures since, even though this medicine is making him feel very light headed and tired.  Here is where the story gets very confusing. Just 3 to 5  days after starting Phenytoin, his lymph nodes became very enlarged and tender around his neck, armpits and groin area. We immediately thought it had to do with his CLL, but after reading about Dilantin's side effects we found out this could've been caused by this medicine.  We called his Neurologist, who recommended us to check first with his CLL Dr. and so we did. Just yesterday he was ordered a biopsy from a couple of his enlarged lymph nodes on his neck.  We're extremely worried about the possible diagnosis, especially, when I've done a lot of research and have found cases of Phenytoin-Associated Lymphoadenopathy Mimicking a Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma, phenytoin-associated hyperplasia, as well as other serious diseases of the lymph nodes associated with this medicine.  Isn't this a big coincidence?  As soon as he started taking this medicine, his lymph nodes became so swollen and tender.  My question is, could this medicine have exacerbated his CLL?  IS IT APPROPIATE TO ADMINISTER PHENYTOIN TO A CLL PATIENT? We need to know if that was a good idea to begin with. The side effects of this medicine are terrible, plus it looks that it hasn't done any good to my husband after his CLL had been stable for so many years. I'm worried about him being misdiagnosed due to this medication... Is there a way to completely make sure he won't be misdiagnosed? Should he stop taking this medicine and repeats tests later on??  HELP!!!!!!