Hello, 
 I have been with my husband for 10 years now and have a 7 year old son.  I am 40 and he is 35.  We have had many ups and down but certainly more frequently in the past year which has brought us twice to the brink of seperating but this time it seems real! I am petrified.. confused and scared that i am making a mistake.  However, my close friends all say that my wanting to leave is very ligitamate.  We both have good jobs and make good money.. .. however finances are always 'tight'. My main issues for me is that with a very busy carreer.. i take care of everything and it is practically impossible to depend on him to take 'care' of things without him forgetting. I take care of all finances, groceries, dinners (he will do dishes), apointments (even his.. but gave up on that), our sons activites - registrations etc, homework.. etc.  He does contribute a bit to the cleaning and stuff.. but he is like a teenager.. with a pile of clothing next to his bed and leaving stuff all around the house.. its exausting.  I ask him weeks ago to call and get some prices for a car part for one of our vehicles.. but in the end.. i ended up doign it.. cause he forgot.  I take care of maintenance and all for vehicles as well.  
  Furthermore, it is very hard or almost impossible for us to discuss any 'touchy' subject matters without ending up in an argument.. him running upstairs and hiding in bedroom.. etc. He says he needs to cool down.. but we never end up discussing the matter.. I am usually scared to bring it back up.. and have him blow up again.  He is immature .. and cannot 'communicate' well when discussions get really serious.. and if I stay calm its seems to aggrevate him more.  Last night I went upstairs after him to try to discuss further.. and he had his ears physically plugged with his fingers! Then he sais.. i do not care what you have to say right now.. and i do not want to hear it.  His excuse.. he was cooling down.. Another time.. following knee surgery .. i had to get a cortizone injection because of real pain in my knee..came home that night and ask him to water the animals (we have a small hobby farm).. told me it was my 'turn'.. and let me go out there drag a 50 pound water jug.. while in pain with my knee.. i cried the whole time.. felt so 'low' at that point.  After such events..usually he gets all nice.. and stuff.. and i forget.. and then another blow up and the cycle continues.  However.. as i said.. still love him and this is what makes it very difficult.  We argued so much last weekend (not always like this).. but my son told me that he wanted us to stop.. and if we could not that he would rather see us seperate.  Anyhow.. i  know i am all over the place.. but that is how i feel now.  WE did go to two therapy sessions.. and had one more scheduled this week.. but was cancelled.