My mother and I have really never had the greatest relationship. I know that by nature maybe mothers and daughters are supposed to fight like cats and dogs, but seriously? This has become most common now when I get depressed and cry on my own because I realize that throughout my 17 years of life my mother (nor anyone else in my family) has ever told me something positive, like great job or told me if they're proud of me. This June I graduated from HS, my plans were to leave the state if possible but because my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer, though she's fine now I've decided to stay. Something went wrong with the college that I was originally going to attend, and now I am going to another still in the city. But my mom literally told me that she does not see me going far, I know I sleep in sometimes, but I feel like everything that I do my mom hates. I am the youngest of my sisters and its constant topic to strangers that I wasn't wanted, wasn't planned. I cry at night when I hear that because it comes from more than one family memeber, it come from all of them, my parents and my sisters. I envy my friends relationship with their mothers because they seem to be able to talk to them about anything. I've never had the luxury to do that with mine. On occasions I've thought that maybe running away or just fading away would let me forget them and the sad that they make me feel sometimes. I'm also a bit overweight and my mom always points out those flaws to me, constantly telling me what's wrong with me instead of just supporting me in things I do, like trying to change my eating and physical habits. Whenever I tell her plans she quickly tells me that I won't keep up with them and like always, never do anything right. I'm fed up with this relationship that I've had with my mom since ever. I don't want to answer her back whenever she tells me these things because I'm afraid that she'll hit me. She has never done it, but when I was younger she wasn't afraid to use the belt with my sisters. All my life I've wanted to be the one daughter that she didn't hit, and she was proud of but I'm not. I need help - can I change this around?