My parents own a restaurant and I would have to go and work everyday; after school, during school breaks, and weekends. My mother is very strict and my dad is just her *****. My mom ignores me a lot when she's mad at me and about November of 2011 I noticed that she was quiet and not very responsive towards and so I asked if she was mad at me and she said "nope." without taking her eyes off her tv show and just kept shoving her dinner in her mouth. On New years she got really mad at me for being in the shower when the ball dropped because apparently it was our "family tradition" to watch the ball drop. My mom snapped at my brother when he asked for money to pay for his school tuition and just went on about crap that he didn't do right...all this was going on while i was helping set up for dinner at the restaurant, and when my brother left because she told him to get out, she walked past me and said "you're done too. you can leave." in a stern voice. she told every customer that came in after that, that we told her that she was a bad mom, she has no kids, and that we raised ourselves. NONE of that of true. She made all of that up. and the thing that hurt the most was that while she was telling that to some lady, she looked over at me, gave me this look and said, "I don't even know why she's still here.." and then looked away. Like I've felt neglected and so unloved by my parents that when she said that and gave me that look, it hurt me on a whole different level...she hasn't talked to me since. My dog needed to go to the vet and she wouldn't give me money for it, and my dad wouldnt either because he was afraid that my mom "would get mad and not talk to him". Today, my friend came over to get some clothes i couldnt wear anymore and my dad was home at the time and my friend and i left shortly after my dad did. My dad told on me, and told my mom that my friend was over because he thought he was doing the right thing...when my mom came home, she immediately started yelling at me and said that i had to have my friend bring the clothes back so that she could look through it..how ridiculous is that? it was just all my old clothes... my parents then went for their daily walk which they do after work every day, and my dad came charging through the door and started screaming at me because he said he and my mom are fighting now because she said, I said that my dad knew my friend was coming over. Complete lie. I said no such thing to her. My dad was flat out ready to punch me in the face. He had his hand up and ready to go...
        My parents are asian, so of course they'd spank me whenever they could when I was little. I was spanked a million times and literally turned black and blue and into a zebra in elementary school for "bad grades". I've been so depressed all my life. I don't take anything for it, because im afraid that if i tell my doctor and my mom finds out she'll scream at me about it. Oh, and did I mention that my doctor is a restaurant customer and friend of my mothers? Yeah, she made me switch from a doctor that i've met once and liked, to a restaurant customer that's now going to know even more about my life. I've never been so depressed like I am now. I would kill myself, but I can't because I would never leave my dog because now i know no one would take care of him. I'm 17 years old, graduated high school early by taking a test because i was miserable in high school, and because of my mom and the restaurant, I didnt have a social life or any friends really. I go to a community college fifteen minutes away from home because my mom wouldn't let me go to the community college in Santa Barbara. School is a drag because I've been only getting one or two classes a semester. I've tried looking everywhere for a job, but people just aren't hiring here... I've just been so depressed for such a long time that I'm convinced that things won't ever get better for me...What did I do to deserve these neglecting and unloving people as my parents? Can I ever look forward to things getting better? I really can't take this much longer.