So, my husband and I have been married for nearly 10 years. We are polar opposites and that has always served us well, but he has a temper. He has never physically hit me, but he has come close. Mental and verbal abuse don't even come close to explaining our situation and it has deteriorated greatly in the last 3 years. Let's just start with he told me I was a medical nightmare to him when I had to have a hysterectomy at 28 due to endonetriosis. Yeah - knife through the heart! All he did was complain about the medical bills and was not supportive at all. Then I was laid off 18 months ago and slumped into an anxiety ridden ball of bein overwhelmed and feeling unworthy because he kept telling me I couldn't hold a job - for the first time in 10 years I was laid off. Then he told me 2 years ago that he no longer found me as sexually attractive as he used to when we first met - yep, can't take that dagger out of my stomach! The names, the temper, I'm so afraid to tell him anything at all because his fuse is beyond trigger happy, and to boot - we have a 4 year old. I have been unhappy and trying to become more assertive but let's just say, it's his way or the highway and come hell or high water, you will agree with him or every day will just be screaming and berating! I learned this year that it's not just me but that I do have generalized anxiety disorder, and he just calls me "crazy and to take my crazy pills." Yeah. The worst part is that I was just laid off again due to funding, and I was immediately petrified to tell him. Rightfully so because when I did I was in a sobbing puddle in my closet and all he could do was be pissed off and berate me for not keeping a job, our financial strains are because of me, etc etc etc. I have dealt with the day in and day out verbal and emotional abuse on my end, but now he is starting to let his temper and tendencies bleed over to how he reacts with our child - and I'm not standing by for that! Essentially, I am exhausted, I'm torn, and he has only become more and more and more materialistic and selfish as the years have gone on. I don't like the expectations and now I just resent this house and the financial gain. When I was given my layoff notice the other day, I also felt relief - relief that I'm financially free and can leave with my son. I just want to separate and be away from all of this. He will not go to counsel pings, will not admit his temper, just says that I make him angry. I have had his back 150% of the way, but he is not in my corner and i have been left alone in this marriage for years now. And the only time he wants anything to do with me is when life is good, never the bad and he never is in my corner. I feel like a piece of meat to him that makes money. He tried to smoothe everything over last night, but it's not enough because it never sticks - it is out the window and falls on deaf ears. I am a very caring and emotionally empathic person, but my husband is just devoid of emotion at this point and I can't be in this marriage alone anymore. Any advice is greatly appreciated - at this point, I don't want to cave to his sweet talk anymore and I know what's right for my son and I, but I am grappling with being the one who walks away and devastates our family.