I am a sophomore in high school. Some days it’s hard to believe I have BPD. Others, I feel like I just want to kill myself to escape it. I thought my depression was  just a result of my environment, but as I learned, it comes from something I carry. Some days it’s the heaviest load imaginable, others it’s a speck of dust. Whenever things are going well, I feel cured and scoff at the psychiatrists that said I had BPD.  Now I am convinced I will always have it, even in the ‘good times.’ BPD doesn’t make me depressed, it just makes getting depressed a whole lot easier. Because I had it my whole life, I assumed it was normal, but when I was 15 I got diagnosed. Things started to make more sense afterwards, but the future seemed less optimistic simultaneously. I will always have BPD. I can never escape it. Before, I thought if I was just in the right environment I would be ok. Its scary to think that I will try to kill myself if I get a B in school. I mean, I just found out my average in Algebra II was a 94 and I already went through the whole cycle of suicidal thoughts  and self-harming impulses. I mean, for us, it really is all or nothing, isn’t it? I wasn’t so mad that it was a 94, im mad because my grade dropped 3% because of a paper I wrote for the class. It was a descent paper, but I got counted off 14 points because I didn’t cite inside the text. I only made a bibliography. The catch is that I was never told to cite inside the text. This is a new school for me, and all the kids who have been here in the past knew to do it, but I was never told. If the teacher would have spent 5 seconds telling us to cite inside the text I could have salvaged my grade. But here is where my BPD really comes in, my teacher said she will give me an 3% bonus extra credit assignment next quarter because I didn’t know how to cite properly, but I still want to hurt myself. Even though I know that I will be compensated for my loss on this assignment, I still want to hurt myself. I DON”T EVEN KNOW WHY, BUT ALL I KNOW IS THAT I WANT TO CUT! There is no logic here, but it still controls me. I have also noticed something very peculiar. When everything is going well for me, when I fell as if I don’t even have BPD, I am a very analytical person, question everything, and very curious about the workings of the world around me. But in moments like these, I am completely impulsive and irrational. I can’t explain myself to others or even me. Logic flies out the window even though it’s usually my guidance. Does this happen with any of you? I still want to cut, but I am stopping myself. Im not cutting cause from the past, I learned that worse things happen after you cut. Im really sick of ERs and hospital beds. But sometimes the knowledge of the pain and misery that will ensue after harming myself doesn’t always stop me. But im scared. My average is a 94, but what if it was an 84. What is going to happen when I make a B? What am I going to do? I can stop and control myself now, but will I be able to then? Im scared that im going to get myself pulled out of school. If I hurt myself and my dad finds out, im going to get pulled out. I have gotten pulled out before and sent to a wilderness camp, but it didn’t help. My dad only thinks it did because I stopped hurting and trying to kill myself. I only stopped self-harming because he offered to send me to a nice, fancy school from a public school. He doesn’t know that’s the reason. He thinks its because the wilderness camp helped. Someone talk to me. I can’t talk to anyone at school or family because it will ruin my life. Friends will run away if I tell them what really goes on in my head, and my dad will pull me out of school if he finds out I still think like this. Im scared that im not going to be able to function in later years of life, when things start to get harder. If I wasn’t at a fancy school, but at a public school, I would have already stabbed myself in the arm (my usual MO). That’s how close I am. But I can’t tell anyone I have these thoughts because it will ruin my life, and when things are going well and I feel like I don’t have BPD, life is pretty sweet. Someone talk to me, someone who knows what I feel like.