I've read a bunch of anger management stuff and things like 'relaxation techniques', meditating, and yoga does not work for me. Does anyone have any new ideas? 
 I get angry really quick before I can even attempt to stop myself. I take things too personally. I am extremely impatient. These are all qualities that I hate and I can't seem to change. 
 I started my first job as a teacher in a new country in 2012. The first 6 months were tough - in a new country, didn't know the language, didn't know anyone except my boyfriend, my boyfriend was in the army and I saw him once a month, etc. But I got through it.
 2013~2014 was great. I blossomed as a teacher and became loved by almost all of the students and made great relationships with my coworkers.
 2015 was the worse year of my life. The administration changed and I was forced to follow a highly stressful curriculum that I and all my students hated. 30% of my students dropped out of the special program I teach because they hated it so much and I had to work over time (8 hours every Saturday) to do lesson planning. 
 This caused me to become highly agitated and easily angered. Things my students did last year that wasn't a big deal to me became something I felt was extremely disrespectful towards me. I used to be a very bright and happy teacher but now I always appear tired and stressed in class. 
 This has caused me to blow up on my students more and more. I feel extremely apologetic towards them. Today, I became so frustrated with one boy who kept playing instead of getting his textbook that I just gave up and left the class. I took 40 minutes to collect myself by throwing all the trash out and recycling all the papers I've been keeping. Then I went back and apologized and explained that this year has been so stressful to me that every little thing seems to set me off. 
 I've decided to quit my job and will be leaving in February. My job has been the source of my anger but I don't think my anger management problems will go away because when I was younger, I had some problems relating to angry due to a non-supportive family environment. 
 My environment affects my mood too much and I want to be able to control myself better. I can't control my environment all the time so I have to learn to control myself.