HUGE problem/issue and how to hope U can help solve it;
Husband's wife did have a reltionship w/other man for "social" fun/attention.
together after sepation, but husband is angry/hold's feeling's in/will not let wife go ANYWHERE and judge's she is doing something wrong, if just out to the store/mall/friend's house, it's a girl! HE IS JEALOUS AND ACT's out a wife to the point she is feeling TIED up, watched,never TRUSTED again. he can't let past go...but wife is not happy,and feel's he can't ever see or even want to see her side of anything...it's all about what HE want's. NO friends they have likes him.
Wife took in 18 yr. old terminal child of her sister's due to "sister's health" and child needed place to stay. Husband said no, but understood this was to be due to wife needing to do this"she luved this child" there is a 11 yr.old daughter of their's who has alway's been mean/disrespectful of her mother. Will go to daddy & complain, blames things that happen on mom and dad agree's w/this little girl, but she treat's father like gold, and cuddles up to her dad and the dad believes her...MOTHER Is furious dad will not listen & understand mom. they have to agree together how to handle child, dad doesn't, he chooses child and tell's her mom is wrong. This is ruining marriage and how parent's should "raise" child, ADVICE please.
NOW: 11 yr old is bullying terminal child living there. Tries to make mom feel guilty for not spending enough time w/her, which MOM does. Runs' to dad. he belives! This is a hard situation w/a sick child there. HasRn help/grandmother and real mom. But, this gives the 11 yr child MORE ways' excuses to "be mean" act out, and she does..to sick child, and her on mom and grandmother, doesn't have any respect. FATHER thinks it's due to "sick" child and jealously, but everyone treats 11 yr. w/ luv, respect,doesn't forget abouther. She know's this but is still mean/and never listen's. HELP WITH ADVICE TO ALL PLEASE, FAMILY IS TORN, MOM WANT'S TO LEAVE OR HAVE DAD AND HER CHILD JUST LEAVE THE HOUSE...TOO MUCH TO HANDLE. HELP