I'm confused. i am in a relationship with my bf for about 17 months now. We became friends when i was 16, he was 17 and i am now 20. i was already with someone else and he was also in a relationship at that time. his history -After high school, he broke up with his gf of 2 years, i don't blame him because she was some what of a (i don't mean to be rude)  ***** i must say. Then, he got into college and he found another girl, which he claims was revenge on his high school gf. He was with her for about 7 months. he was single for 5 to 6 months after that. in that 5 months, he told me that a "model" asked him out. i mean he is ok looking, i was attracted by his looks but he isn't brad pitt or wtv. and he's 5'7", i mean come on! that is short for a guy right?! and they went out once, for a movie, and he told me they made out in the cinema and HE stopped contacting her after that. SERIOUSLY?! Then, while he was with the college gf, he went out with another girl cause he liked her. when the gf found out, they broke up and the other girl just used him. 6 months after he broke up with his college gf, i and him started talking again and he somehow convinced me to end up with him. i liked him as a friend but after awhile, i fell in love with him. i started getting upset about his past and crying and asking him all sort of questions. it bothered me so much that i would call him about 100 times to get answers. i became a psychotic *****, it drove me crazy that he was with all these girls before. oh and btw, whe we got together, he said that it was LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT FOR HIM WHEN HE FIRST SAW ME! i mean then why the were you with so many girls then me right? if it was "love at first sight", he could have waited for me right? i really really do love him, from the bottom of my heart, but at the same time, i really don't wanna be in a relationship with him. but i'm afraid of being alone. he has blamed me for this whole 17 months we were together but he has also done so much for me. and my mom does not like him, i lie to her and go out with him. should i leave him or not? #sadandconfused
 *i know i wrote alot of nonsense and i'm sorry in advance, i just have nowhere else to ask anyone :(