I'm 25, going through some stuff and looking for answers. 
I'm home for the winter with my husband and we're watching my parents' house while they are out of town for work. 
We spent several hours cleaning the fridge and cabinets because although my mother keeps a very clean and tidy household, she loves to shop and we found heaps of foodstuffs that had gone bad, some as long as 4 or 5 years ago. It was a tricky job, as the cabinets are high up and my 5'11" husband had to stand on a stool to reach the things in the back, and I put a lot of thought into organizing the remaining items so they will be found and used more easily. 
When I said what I was doing on Facebook, my mom called me with a "who-do-you-think-you-are" attitude and was angry, told me to stop and mind my own business, and asked if this is the kind of stuff I do in "other people"s houses."
I was distraught. It was the last straw. I did some deep soul-searching, looking at my own diaries from when I was 15 until the last time I was there before graduation at 19. 
There were several entries where I was upset at my mother. but I always thought that it was normal teenager angsty stuff. 
My mother (and father too) often told me that I have no personality, a horrible attitude, that I was selfish, spoiled, a jerk, an *******, a moron, rude, stupid, have no common sense, I act like a "retarded 8 year old", have no (musical) talent, the list goes on. As I got closer to graduating high school they told me that I would never survive in college, never survive in the real world. According to them I had no social life, just 4 friends who were stupid morons, and that I was always in my own little closed world on the Internet. I watched anime and listened to Japanese music, which they thought was childish and annoying. 
They always provided for me, materially and financially. I never went without, but my mother also constantly tried to push me to share her interest in fashion, beauty, superficial stuff and called me a nut and a scumbag when I tried to have my own individual style. I repeatedly told her I had no interest in jewelry, girly clothes and stuff but she would still constantly buy it for me and push it on me. Oh, did I mention she bleached my hair blonde continuously since I was about 9 years old and I hated it? I came from a tropical island where my hair was sun and chlorine bleached from swimming, and when my naturally light brown hair started to grow back in she wouldn't have it. 
My mother made a big show of always sparing no expense. I wanted to live more modestly, working a simple part-time job and shopping at thrift stores and saving my money but she would tell me that's what poor people do, and I'm not poor. 
My parents supported me going to college to study Japanese, but would also constantly berate me up until I moved into the dorm that I would never succeed if I watched Japanese anime and listened to Japanese music. When I tried to explain that my interest in the culture was giving me a great head-start in learning the language my mother mocked me asking "so, are you fluent yet?" and then when I tested into an accelerated course because I found I already knew basic sentence structure and how to write simple characters they bragged to all their friends. 
My mother always bragged about me to her friends, but inside the house I never got that praise. My mother loves to put on this glamorous front to everyone she meets. Everyone she knows always gets expensive gifts around the holidays and usually she has a best friend who she will shower with designer things and they are inseparable for years until inevitably they do something she doesn't like and are dropped like a hot potato. This has happened a few times that I know of. 
My older brother is 30 and still not making a living, my mother always gives him money and pays his bills for him, but he was never abused like I was. He never cleaned his own room. Mom did it or ordered me to do it. Yet she always berated me for my room not being clean enough. 
It wasn't just verbal/emotional abuse.....If I had a "sour" look on my face (which was usually a confused look after I was yelled at for not even doing anything bad) I immediately got a hard slap on the face.  My mother often took out her stress and anger on me when something happened at an inconvenient time for her. Once my teacher called my house because I was late to class often and "not doing well" (because the material was way below my level we found later) and I had just had a shower and she took my hairbrush and beat me with it. Once in the morning she got frustrated while brushing my hair and brushed it so roughly my scalp bled. 
If I cried in front of her from the abuse she mocked me. "Oh look, she's cryyyying, she's saaaaad" 
What affected me most was the way she would scream and yell directly in my face to the point where I actually winced. But that was her normal way of dealing with things....she always screamed, yelled, and threw a tantrum when something didn't go her way at home or in the car. And if I calmly asked her to be quiet because I was on the phone, or I did something so rude as to shut the door to my room to block her out, the verbal attacks were then directed at me, calling me "rude" and an "*******". My dad would either tune her out or tell her to stop calmly, but that never worked. My mom had this habit of ranting and raving to thin air at times. Her behaviour was just irrational.
My now-husband came to visit and from a long time ago he said something was strange about the way my mom would just yell my name from somewhere in the house and I would literally jump to attention and hurry to wherever she was to follow her commands. That's because if I didn't do just that, doesn't matter if I was in the middle of studying, playing a game, or boiling water to make hot ramen noodles in my room because she hasn't attempted to make lunch and is sitting there eating cookies all day, I have to be there NOW. 
My mother always said that my friends and now-husband would someday see what a horrible selfish jerk I am and see my "real" personality, and they would hate me and I would be miserable and alone...and I would deserve it. 
 Despite this, I had lots of great friends in high school, my teachers and friends parents also seemed to enjoy having me around, when I went to college, despite my parents trying to tell me what to do despite having no idea what they're talking about (both of them have never been to college) I managed my credits and actually graduated early for my major (4.5 years vs 5) made lots of friends in college and became an officer in both the Japanese Culture Club and Anime Society, volunteered and got part-time jobs and yes, did become fluent but not just by going to class. Married my husband and we are going to celebrate our anniversary, 4th wedding and 7th overall. 
 But under all of that I have always had low confidence, low self-esteem, whenever I made a date or appointment with a friend I always thought underneath that they would ditch me (I was teased in middle school pretty badly by people who would do that), I often blamed myself for things that went wrong, and when I was about 20 I started having steadily severe panic attacks and depression. 
 I thought my mom was mean and I was scared of her growing up so I would try to do well in school and stuff, but I thought that was normal. But with my recent symptoms, and recent things going on, I wanted to find out....
was I abused? 
is my mother narcissistic?
and what should I do?