I was diagnosed with bpd in 2008. I generally have 9 of the traits listed. My abandonment fears and devaluation is extremely high right now and often is several times a week. I am am addict who was clean for 22 months through a rigorous program. As soon as I graduated I got high again.i lost my job due to a major emotional abandonment meltdown 2 months ago.i can't find the motivation Togo walking thru the snow to go look for work. In part I feel unemployable. My work history is humiliating. My spouse is an active addict whose been unemployed for a year in January.hes taken over my vehicles and often leaves me without any transportation. My adult son, also an addict, put me in my place today. He needed a ride. I told him I can't drive in this snow. He told me I "need to stop acting the victim. Whoever told me I was incapable of anything is wrong. Mom, you bern driving by yourself in SD for 19 years" he was right. I've given up the fight to stand up for myself and leave everything yo my spouse. I font know how to take that independant part of myself back. My spouse seems to deal with my outbursts fair enough. He's not abusive. But he along with all my other 3 supports refuse to educate themselves in my illness. No one wants to read. My spouse recently injured his leg and is in a lot of pain. The ER said it was sciatica and there was nothing they could do for him. He can't look for work. But he'll work on cars and hustle she he needs. I know deep in my heart he's very bad for me. Always has been. But I've always taken care of him, as little as I can anymore. I'm addicted to him. Tonight he left to get cigarettes and toilet paper. Two hours ago. I'm feeling that anger and lonliness building. I realize the car may've gotten stuck in the snow, it has before. But he can't seem to remember a courtesy call. Although he don't have a cell phone. For cryin out loud every gas station has a phone. He's also a gambling addict and somehow someone gave him money today. My thoughts race to he's gambling and wont come home with to, even if he does, I'm still angry. I know darn well I must leave him but... I've no money, no place to go, I'm not willing to lose everything I've obtained in the past 2 years, I have a ridiculously small and weak support system of 3 people 2 of which are his friends as well. I have 4 acquaintance friends who also have mental illness but in lower functioning forms than I do. I have a therapist and a med doc. That's it! I spend most days home alone for hours. It *****