Up until last may I was in a 1.5yr relationship with someone whom was sexually abused by her father, she told me about 4 months into the relationship about her abuse because some of her issues were coming up. She was up front from the beginning that she had issues but never told me where they stemmed from until then, but made no mention of her BPD diagnoses. From that point on more problems came up, the fights and agreements became more frequent. At times they were because I did something stupid (I'm not trying to say all the fighting is because of her BPD) so when she would bring something to my attention I would change my behavior or the way I went about things because I agreed with her and thought her requests where just.   
 for e.g. Once I had to change plans we had because I had to go to work, I gave her a 1-2 week notice. She said I was being selfish and never considered her. So from that point on I always talked to her before I agreed to weekend work. But she couldn't drop the issue, she would keep bringing it up again and again. There are plenty of time that type of thing would happen. 
At the time I was a long haul truck driver and every week there would accusation made that I was off doing lord knows what with lord knows who, along with who's that blonde **** on your Facebook page, why do you have picture of that person etc..... So I would get rid of picture, stopped talking to people to ease her mind. By this time there was a couple 1-2 day brake ups because I was confused, spinning, emotionally tired and couldn't handle it anymore. 
Then we moved in together, we did it slowly over a course of a month. Then I stopped driving a truck over the road and got a job with a construction company driving a dump truck, two days in we had a huge fight and she was accusing me of all sorts of thing. I moved out (according to her I ran 2 days in) we continued to "date" and talk, in that time I explained my action and why I did what I did. She said she understood but didn't agree with my action but her issues where becoming overwhelming over the next 2 months of dating. So I called it off again, due to confusion, emotionally drained, the feeling of having to defend myself etc....
 We went a month without seeing each other and very little to no talk. 2 weeks ago we started talk again, we have seen each other a couple of times and in that time she told me about her BPD diagnosis that she received in her late teens or early 20's so I've been doing allot of reading, talking to her and buying books about. But she keeps telling me that everything is my fault, I ruined everything, she can't believe in the things I say and she can't trust me to stay. Which I don't blame her in that lack of trust cuz I did walk a few times before, but that was before I've been doing all of the reading and learning about BPD and I'm starting to have a better and clearer understand of what and why she reacts the way she does. I never held her issues against her and I always knew she wasn't doing the things she did on purpose. Now she has come a long way already in dealing and living with BPD through intensive therapy when was younger and she only has issues inside a committed relationship now. She no longer goes to therapy and as far as I know she never took any meds for this. 
 Cuz I do love her so very much and don't want to be with anyone else, so I'm looking for help on ways to bring up her issues when she is having them, when she is still pushing. I know it's going to take time and I've already told her that and I have all the time in the world for her and working on us.