Quick b/g. Married 34 years, mainly happily except for 1 infidelity by husband. Got through it by talking. We do that well! 5 years ago an ex from 35 years ago got in touch with me out of the blue. We emailed a lot then he asked me to go out to the place he was working for a holiday. I, honestly, in all innocence, with my husband's blessing, went. We just got on purely as 'friends'. We met, talked forever about our families, work, politics etc. etc. Then we stupidly, after 4 days, slept together. At the time it seemed so right, he declared he should never have 'dumped' me as I reminded him he did. We should have had children together and on and on. He had always been very tactile. He declared he loved me.
It almost ended in disaster. My husband was incredibly patient. I very nearly left until my son (at Uni) called us 'losers' and was visibly shocked and upset by my intention to leave. It all became clear how stupid I'd been. I did not want to lose my beautiful family. So, I ended it. Completely. This all happened within 6 months.
Last year (4 years after with no contact at all) this ex got in touch again. I thought we could be friends. I did not want him at all but was happy to help him as he was getting divorced because he'd met someone else. This other person had actually broken up with him, though. I spent months supporting him by email (we didn't meet), but I found it very difficult sometimes, thinking 'I've been here before'! It was most bizarre hearing almost every detail of their relationship. Lots of similarities with the stages I'd also gone through with him.( He's very controlling and manipulative). She had similar issues with him which is why she ended it. I felt genuinely sorry he had lost both his wife and his girlfriend (but I did keep telling myself, ah, this is Karma at work!). At no point were there any thoughts of a reunion.
Then 2 months ago his best friend died. My (still) best friend had been married to him for a short time 30 odd years ago. I had to tell her and she was visibly upset. Anyway, I gave my ex her email (we had gone out together all those years ago as couples) so he could fill her in. 
My ex lives in Europe by the sea and he asked her to go over for a 'break'. Oh, dear, I panicked. But this is where I need help to sort out my feelings! I felt really hurt! I've been trying to analyse why. I certainly don't want him. I do want my best friend to be still my friend, though! She seemed so carried away by it all. I tried to warn her but she just brushed it away saying nothing would happen.
My ex almost stopped emailing me, the odd message quite cold. They both 'shut me out'. So, is this why I feel hurt? She is going to the exact place we had our affair. Is that it? My memories being trampled on? I decided I must sever all contact with him, so I told him 'goodbye, none of my business'. Actually for my own sanity, but he, in his arrogance, assumed it was because I was jealous. Angry? Perhaps. If I could understand my emotions I would just put it in the past and forget it. I feel like a teenager again! I am the one who everyone comes to with their problems and I can't figure out my own! 
I read some posts on exes - can it ever be friendship? I think it is dangerous ground! But please can someone make some sense of what has happened? It feels like some psychological mind game.