Right about 2 months ago i met this gorgeous girl called Tyler, she was the best thing that had happend to me in years, i had been suffering from depression (Although never diagnosed) i was for once happy, i thought i would introduce her to my mum since she had introduced me to all her family. Well it went well my mum said shes a great girl and we are good together. When we were together (although we were never alone) we would fool around kiss tickle cuddle etc etc... We decided to go for a walk while we were walking she look at me and said she loved me & doesn't want to loose me. Well my friend who i must say we had fallen out and i knew he wanted to be friends again for ages. I just had trust issues but being with her made them go in a way. 
 Well i said we can be friends as long as he doesn't do what he did before (Hang around with older brother instead of me) well he saw how me and Tyler were together, and said we make a great couple...
Well a couple days after i was speaking to Tyler on MSN and she asked me to come round, as she was lonely and no one was there. I said joking around "i would fall asleep, then what would your mum say ;)" she replied: "She doesnt mind if you sleep round." Well i said i cant im ready for bed and i keep falling asleep so she said ok then, then we said our good byes and i said i will walk her to school in the morning. Well after that night everything went downhill. She told my best mate Daniella to tell me she didnt have feelings for me no more. When i got told this i lost it i smashed a wall (luckily didn't break my knuckles) then went for a walk on my own, which i had a little moment where i cried, then full of anger toward myself for not going that night!
 Well recently she's been around my best mates Matthew  alot which upset me because when she first saw him she said he is effing ugly. And now she bought condoms last Sunday which can only mean one thing she is going to have sex with him!
 Despite the other rumours i have meen hearing about her, it doesn't change the way i feel about her my so called best friend Daniella is keep saying she's slept with one of her boyfriends 12 times in one day and im like i couldn't give a F*** i love her for her not how easy she is to get into bed! Now all my friends are telling me to ignore her and i keep telling them over and over again that i cannot forget her i love her too much!!
 I also asked yesterday did she mean it when she said she loved me she replied "Yes i really loved you"
 Just thought i would get this of my chest as its bugging me :)
 Thanks,
Ben