Hi. I'm 26 I just had my first baby he is 3 months old. I live with my boyfriend who is also 26. We planned to have this baby together we planned to get pregnant. He asked me to marry him I said yes. We have  been together for 2 years. His mother and father are not together. His mother's house hold loves me. They have welcomed me with open arms and I love all of them as well. His father's house hold is very toxic. They are toxic To each other and to people that are involved with them. Since I have gotta pregnant his father's house hold had become extremely aggressive tword my boyfriend. My boyfriend worked for his father so his father felt that he had a right to control and manipulate him. This is how his life has been until I came in to the picture. His father's house hold is afraid that I will tell my boyfriend that its ok to not let people put you down so they can use you. I promise I am a respectable person. And I don't want things to be this way but I do not want to be disrespected either because I will not disrespect any one at least not mean to and I have no problem with saying sorry. They have done and said allot of hurtful things to me and about me and to him and about him and even our baby. His father fired him. And they have cut off all ties with each other. My boyfriend tells me that he is ok with this. That I shouldn't feel bad. But for some reason I feel awful and I feel like this is going to bite me in the *** in the end. I feel that they do not want his son to be with some one who they can not control or manipulate  so they don't like me. I also feel that my boyfriend regardless of how they treat him and my self they are still his parents and he still loves them. I'm afraid that we will not get married and I will be a single mother witch we both agreed would never happen but because this is family it is making our relationship very hard. We haven't spoke to them in 3 months and they are telling mutual friends that he is picking this girl  who is me over that house hold because I have brained washed there son. My boyfriend says things like his father is waiting for him to break and go crawling back to him. Im afraid that is going to turn into a us or her fight witch it is already. I'm afraid I will lose that battle. Any advice?