Sooo
 I originally signed up to get help for the medical issues I'm having, but then I found this Abuse Support section
 Recently I've had problems, and those problems would be 'remembering'
 There's no easy way to say this really but I've been through abuse by a family member, sexual and, what I'd consider, physical. It's just been a weight on me lately, toppled by the fact I have something physically wrong inside my body. I've tried talking to people online, you know, to get help, but the people I've talked about it with hadn't gone through what I have. They don't seem to understand the psychological issues that follow with being sexually abused and they don't understand that it pops up whenever I'm engaging in a sexual situation. I'm so scared of men, either that or I hate them sometimes [not all of you, believe me I know there are amazing men out there, I am pretty close friends with a a great man that I trust dearly] and this fear has stopped me from doing a lot of things, mainly one is being able to go outside for a walk around the block, or walk at least two minutes from my place. Even during a two minutes walk I've had a group of three men shout at me. Seriously two minutes. It makes me so mad and feel very unsafe.
 I guess what I just want is someone I can talk to that has been through the same thing as I. It'd probably be healthier to do it in real life, and I'd love to, but it's terrible. I wish I could wear a different skin so I can go to these support groups without being recognized. I don't want anyone to know. No one really does know right now, no one in real life besides one of my ex-friends, who actually made a joke about it. I feel caged having to keep it a secret, and I can't tell a family member as my family members that are left rely on this person financially. Do you see the problem here? I have to see my abuser everyday and I feel I get angry and quiet around him. I actually didn't seem to realize I was abused up until 3 or 4 years ago. It's not just the abuse, but it's the comments that were made to me, you know. The little things that if I hadn't said 'no' makes you wonder how far they could have escalated if I had been too scared to say no. That stuff just sits in my head. I need to get out and live on my own, away from this, it's stressing me out and I'm just crying because I hate him so much and he's such a terrible person. From the outside you wouldn't know that he was abusive, which makes this all the more harder when my friends talk to him, when I have to keep it a secret from them, It hurts
 I don't know who to talk to about it. I've talked to someone who had said that it's in the past, but it's really not. Yes, what happened is long gone and done, but that disgusting, uncomfortable feeling lingers whenever confronted with a sexual situation, whenever I am around him, etc..
 I don't know what to do.