I am sure my husband suffers from depression! I have checked the symptoms and he ticks 19 out of 21. He is extremely negative and fault finding, low in energy, irritable, with mood swings, tired but working all the time, lack of focus, sensitive to noise, low tolerance and easily turning things to negative even when there is nothing apparently wrong and we may be having a nice day. He refuses to be happy and when I ask him about our relationship he keeps saying "I had enough", he is very short tempered with me and makes me feel guilty and helpless. It feels like he is abusing me and when I finally react by arguing back, he blames me. He sleeps in the spare room since 6 months ago, doesn't want me to touch him or show affection or try to connect with him, and is very sensitive to the slightest request or criticism. I am worried because, although all this time I thought he was upset with me, I have made a lot of changes in my behaviour, am softer with him, not pulling but giving him space, but he is still shows no interest on me as his wife. How can I go about this? This is ruining our marriage and he doesn't seem to admit that he suffers from anything, although his eyes are often starring and his eyelids are red, he looks quite ill to me a lot of the time, slow moving and sluggish most of the time. He is nice to our 5 year old but still gets snappy with her, he also has lots of mood swings which are very confusing to both our child and myself. I have worked on our relationship as much as I could, I thought that this would help him, but honestly it has made no difference, I could say he is getting worse. How can I approach his doctor? How can I talk to my husband when he doesn't want to admit there is anything wrong with him and it's all down to my lack of listening to him? He says he can't say how he feels but he always says things in such a negative way and blaming me that it is very hard to listen anymore. I am just fed up with all this negativity and I have to admit that I don't want to hear it. He needs professional help and I want to stop being his punchbag. Please help, I sometimes want to separate but I would prefer if I could save my marriage. By the way he is stuck with this Marriage councillor whom i don't want to see again because she keeps saying that the marriage is ending. I feel that she is not qualified enough as she has not given our relationship any direction apart from doom and gloom and if anyhing it has made it worse rather than helped it.