Hi guys
 I have been reading some posts in this forum and I feel I am not alone.
 My life is in its worst place imaginable .... I have been with my husband for eight years in total...three years we have been married ... I left India for further studies and met him in university things were good to start with but I fell pregnant twice but had to terminate my babies as we were students and not married ( I will regret it for the rest of my life) he once said that his elderly parents needed him badly and he was their only son to make matters worse we both are of different religions ( never thought it mattered) I went against the wishes of my parents to marry him as he is a good hearted man....
 We are married but no one execpt his parents know and every marriage anniversary he kept telling me that once we are financially settled we will come out with our marriage...his parents are very superstitious and believe in black magic they have convinced him that he shouldnt even eat at his relatives house as they can't bear to see him so healthy and happy (!!!!!) I have tried to reason with him and make him understand that all this is bull and he should know better he has lived overseas for 9 years but all to deaf ears....
 Coming back to me After we got married his mother and father started to torture me about my weight his father went as far as to call me a fat buffalo and that I was not symmetrical in body...my weight has gone up since the termination and I live in constant depression...I tried to tell him and he bit my head of saying that I had no idea on how difficult life has been for his parents and how alone they are .,, the abuse carried on every time I rang up to speak to them and I couldn't talk to him about it as he wouldn't even hear a word against them... SlOwly I stopped reacting to them and refused to speak which enraged them even more...
 My father wasn't to happy with my choice but he still welcomed him in the family but he nurses a grudge against my dad now on why
He didn't straight away accept him as my husband...my husband also stopped talking to my family as I wasn't talking to his mum and dad..,
 Couple years back he was stuck back home for a few months and I had to work two jobs to support him as it was beneath him to work India .., his parents took this as an opportunity to brain wash him against me...I have one philosophy in life EQUALITY. I believe that we both are a part
Of this marriage and have equal rights...he came back a different man... 
 I supported him every possible way never wanted any money jewellery or expensive stuff I
Just wanted to be loved the way I loved and supported him... It constantly hurt me that why did he never stand up for me in front
Of his parents... His mother has now started to use religion to torture me she wants to leave my religion all together but is on the face is being all
Nice and supportive 
 I'm tired and constantly hurting we have separated we live in the same house but different rooms... I feel that his parents have broken my marriage they just wanted their son back from a woman who wouldn't dance to their tunes or wouldn't stay under their control..
 I am battling with my depression everyday I see my babies every where why did he not give us a chance they were his blood to I nearly died due to
Blood poisoning during the second termination...I feel that after being there for him every step in
Life he ran to his mum when it was his turn to
Be there for me... I wanted to fit in his family I tried but I couldn't bear anymore abuse...
 I want to let him go and to see for himself he wants to be without me... Am I doing the right
Thing...