Someone please help. I am SO worried that I may have throat cancer!! 
 I have had swollen tonsils for 7 months now. The right side is bigger than the left. Every now and then they will get pus pockets in them. I also have two redish yellow spots on the roof of my mouth close to the back and a few of those spots on the back of my throat. My throat feels tight. Every now and then I will have a pain my throat or tonsils and a burning feeling. I also have ear pains. I have only had an actual sore throat twice since the swelling began. Meds will taken away the pus pockets but not the swelling. 
 I have no other symptoms than that. No knot or anything. 
 I have been to 3 different doctors about them. two of those doctors gave me meds and sent me home. One has told me that I just need to have my tonsils removed. I have been to that doctor 4 different times due to meds not responding. I have been putting off getting them removed because I have heard that it is painful. 
 I have had several blood work done for this and that recently. Would if I had a trace of cancer it would show up, right?? Like some kind of abnormality would show?? The doctor who said I need them removed said that the blood work was good, nothing more than tonsillitis. 
 But why have they been swollen SO LONG?? 
 I am 20 years old. I use to have strep very bad has a child. But I really never had trouble from my tonsils til now. 
 I live on a dirt road. Since I have lived here, I have had bad sinus problems. I would cough up black stuff and blow my nose and black stuff would come out. It has been that way for years. Due to this, I had to have surgery on my sinus and they put a hole in my sinus to my throat to filter it someway. I have cats which makes my eyes itch some. I am dating a guy who smoked. Maybe it is allergies?? 
 I have had oral sex and unprotected sex. I am embarrassed to ask my doctor about this. I am so extremely worried that I have throat cancer from HPV. 
 I have never been tested from HPV due to my age. In the state I live in, they don't give those test until age 21. So I do not know if I have HPV. 
 I recently had a hysteroscopy and two pulps removed from my uterus. Would that surgery have shown HPV?? 
 I have searched and searched but find nothing that really relates. The symptoms I am having is like so many other things, including allergies, cancer and tonsillitis. I have found photos that say cancer then some say tonsillitis. They all look so much alike! How do I know the difference?! If they look alike and symptoms are alike how are the doctors so confident that it is just tonsillitis??   
 Someone please help! 
 Thanks.