Ok, my boyfriend and I have been together for over a year now, and for MONTHS now he lashes out in anger over things that would never been, in my mind, a reason to get angry. For example, today I woke to the bed shaking, he got out of bed and yelled at my daughter loudly "SHUTUP" mind you I never talk to my daughter that way, and neither will he if I have anything to do with it. She is two years old and playing in her room with her "babies" is no reason to yell at her like that, the reason he was yelling at her is because, he didn't climax, this is morning, hence the shaking bed. Then he tells me I woke him up this morning masturbating,,, I'm sorry but I think that I would know if I were masturbating that isn't something that I missed lol. So I'm lying because I said no I did not wake you up from that, even though I didn't even go in the bedroom until he was about to wake up because I work nights. Then he comes in the bedroom yells at me and tells me to wake the **** up and get my kid this is seconds after he yelled at her, i am sorry the story is jumping around. He starts cussing and throwing the dishes in the sink around while he is cleaning them, this is at like 7 am, I don't know anyone that cleans the second their eyes pop open. Then starts cussing about something else and goes outside. When he comes back in he is fine for awhile. I cooked breakfast, we ate no big deal things were fine, he goes outside again comes back in yelling again asking me why my daughter's window is open, (air conditioning is not on BTW) and asks how it got open well we had a bad storm here so the wind probably blew in open it does every time there is a storm, Dakotah is too small to reach the lever to open it and then tells me I'm lying and that i opened the window and it shouldn't be open. Really? its hot out theres no air on and is it really that big of a deal. I didn't say anything I just went and cleaned up breakfast messes. He tells me that since my two jobs don't add up to his roofing job it is my job to clean the house have dinner on the table when he gets home. basically cater to him. and right now he is happy as a song bird, i just don't get it. does anyone else see a problem with this? I looked up Bipolar disorder I don't think thats it, but if anyone could shed some light, that would be fantastic, because my head is about to explode. Thank you!