Hi all, I have no problem admitting to myself that I have a problem - but the thought of revealing my 'secrets' to anyone makes me feels physically sick. Im a guy aged 17, and I would say my 'depression' first started when I was 12. I felt anxious around people, like I couldn't compete with these people - I just felt worthless. I started cutting, it started small cuts on my thighs and soon I was cutting my upper and forearm and wrists. I never thought much of it, it just became something I did to feel good - some people played sports or went out with mates - I would cut. By the age of 15 I was still cutting and had suffered from several anxiety attacks. by now my arms were a piece of art of scars and cuts. After 3 years I stupidly forgot to cover up and went downstairs at home. My mum saw and was horrified. She just didn't understand why anyone would do it and assumed I wanted to die. she just didnt understand. I ended up at a walk in mental health unit that I went to once every week for the afternoon to 'talk'. I hated it. We went twice and never again. It was pointless people just did not understand. 2 years on and I feel my life has avalanched into despair. My parents divorced, I moved out of home (only to later move back in with mum). Both my parents are on anti-depressants and things with them have been messy. My mum tried to take her own life by taking an overdose - all these things I just feel have built up and I feel hopeless. I dread the future. I feel through typing behind the safety of my computer screen I can be honest about my feelings - I just cant do this in person. My college have noticed that something is up and I saw the college counsellor. I told him bits and bobs but I felt so sick, I just wanted to get out of there. He was understanding and a genuine nice guy - and he wants me to see my GP. Why do you think this is? The thought just fills me with dread.
 Sorry if this doesn't make sense - its the first time ive ever written down how I feel. If anyone could offer me any guidance I would more than appreciate it.
 Cheers guys, Callum.