My 27 yo daughter was sexually abused by a 16 yo neighbour when only 9 yo. I did not find out about it till she was 17. I took her to a therapist but it was a waste of time and money as she just refused to talk to her about anything and the therapist told me she just couldnt get her to talk at all. She was teased for years by the abusers sister as she found them naked in her bedroom but at 13 she didnt understand what had happened. She would call her all sorts of ugly names and I didnt know why. As a teen my daughter would cut herself on the arms and legs and all her relationships have been abusive. Her father was a very abusive drunk whom I left when she was 5. He caused us a great deal of harassment for years afterwards then just disappeared off the scene until she tracked him down about 4 years ago. He isnt any better now and often harasses her on the phone. Unfortunatley my second husband has also drink problems and though not violent has caused us a lot of heartache because of his drinking and womanising. We lost our home because of it. My daughter has a 7 yo daughter from one of her relationships and then about 2 1/2 years ago she came home to say she was getting married in 6 weeks. The man was a friend that she had known for about 2 years, he is extremely short tempered and violent and she has left him once and come home but she just stayed in her room for months only going out of a night to track him down at work where she would cause a scene until he would lose that job. Eventually she had a big fight with me after I asked her to stop using the clothes dryer on sunny days. She attacked me in front of her daughter and my other 3 yo granddaughter, greatly upsetting both little ones. I was bruised and sore for days after. At the time I told her to get out so she went back to her husband and that is where she has been till about a month ago. She finally got an AVO out against him but still allows him to come back on a nightly basis though not live there. While she was seperated she met a seemingly nice boy on the internet. I didnt meet him until nearly a year after when he was driving her everywhere (while she was still with her husband) as she had lost her licence. He relationship with her husband has never stopped being violent. She had converted to Islam and both husband & friend are muslim. The second man has been very good to her, giving her gifts and helping with money as she really has nothing. She would call him whenever she needed anything and he seemed to be always there for her. The husband found out about him and has been crying and begging her to take him back. Now she has turned on her friend and accused him of stalking her and trying to buy her with gifts. Today she turned up at his place and punched him in the face and was screaming obsenities at him outside his home. Her daughter was with her at the time.His sister calmed her down after about an hour and when she was going she asked him to come to the petrol station with her as she was very upset. When he had filled up and paid for the petrol she again started screaming and abusing him and calling his mother awful names. She had not met his family before today as she just refused all invitations to go there. She shakes all the time and always seems to have one of those energy drinks in her hand. She is always complaining of sickness, headaches, body pains etc but when finally convinced to go to a doctor, she never goes back for test results or even to get the tests sometimes. She has had one scare with cervical cancer and had a cone biopsy but hasnt gone back for checkups. That was only picked up because she has gone for an abortion to the creep she married prior to them marrying. Though she loves her daughter I know she is like Jekyl and Hyde with her. One minute loving the next abusing her beyond reason for dirtying her clothes. I know the poor little thing is terrified of her and will beg me to clean up any marks on her clothes, she also once told me her mother puts her hand over her mouth till she nearly passes out and she had a bite on her leg once and after her trying her best to tell me a story about it finally confessed her mother did it but insisted it was only mucking about! She is no longer a happy little girl, you can see the change in her. My daughter also seems to have a real hatred towards me and I believe it date back to me not protecting her from that molester, I just was too stupid and overworked to realise and I live witth that guilt. I will kill him if I ever come across him for what he has done to her. She has no self esteem whatso ever, but is very attractive and was always a good athlete. She goes into absolute rages and we just cant speak to her, the minute we do a rage will starts. She tells people what an awful childhood she had and what a bad mother I am. I think it is only a matter of time before she has a complete meltdown but Im so afraid she might hurt her little girl when she does. As it is now , she drags her out day and night, doesnt fees her properly and lets her stay up as long as she likes. Her freind has told me that she smokes dope every day but I have never seen any evidence of it not that I can go to her flat much, she always says she will come here if I want to pick her daughter up or something. She very rarely lets her stay with me anymore saying she is afraid to be alone in the flat. Look I could go on with lots of things, how she was totally rejected by another mans family and she believed he was going to marry her but it was plainly obvious to us that he was using her ,only came to see her week nights, never on weekends, never took her out etc, that went on for about 18 months. We can all see that she is sick but just dont know what to do. She accused both my son and her friend of stealing money from her when neither did and she thinks everyone is out to get her. One minute she is ok and the next screaming filth and abuse. If anyone can help me at all I would be very grarteful