Hello,
First of all i want to apologize, because my english is not good.I want to introduce myself.
My name is Magda and i am from poland, i have big problems with my self since i remember.
I never looking for help, but now i just can't endure with all of my problems, because with
another days, another problems are coming. Sometimes I begin GOD to make a car disaster
with me, but then I realize that my car is too pretty... ;( I have 23 years old, my some
 problems start at high school, but i am not sure if i should start from there. 
( I hope that you guys will understand my ugly english) I find that page because i very
need help, and on polish websites its hard with it ;)
I try to introduce my problems very briefly, cause they are too much complicated...
 FIRST PROBLEM:
 I am a student, of 3rd year. But i dont know whether i finished this, because i am very scared,
of people in my group, of teachers, of everything ..... I dont like to say 
something at classes, i know that people have fun when i try say something, then i feel awfully.
When i am at school i want to be alone, and i dont want to say any words. Lastly i even can't
learn anything i just can't and i dont want to ! but the "other" me want to pass, 
but dont want to say anything to anyone, and problems go round in circles...
My BF said today to me that he have to prepare a long speach at his class, and he got good note
for this, my first idea, when he said that ... I was just jelous that he wasnt be scared
of saying something alongside a many people in class !!!
 SECOND PROBLEM:
I feel lonely..I have Bf, i love him, he loves me, but i feel very lonely. I dont have friends, because all of they
were pretended. Sometimes i want to make a conversation with someone, but i done have any friends.
I cant talk about womans problems, etc.
I want to go on kick-boxing lessons, i check everything about that: where it is, how much does it cost, and i really want 
to go, but only in my mind. I dont have any "power" to go there, because i dont know any people there. It will be weird
for me, to come.. maybe some of people will start gossiping, or something i always assume the worst.I want to go, but
i wont dare to do it..
  THIRD PROBLEM: ( more complicated than first, i even dont understand it ...)
 I am in relationship for 5 years. I love my BF, its okay, bt then i started a dispute. When he goes to classes, 
i always write to him terrible things, that i dont love him, or something worst... I always accuse to him, that 
he's talking with other womans, or that he's looking at thems. I dont want to do that, deep inside i trust him,
but when he goes, and i am at home i always think about the worst, i dont want to, because i destroy our
relationship, i can advise with it.
When he is somewhere alone, i always send to him a thousand messages, when he dont answear in 5 minutes i started yelling. I think all the time, what is he doing ? wiht who he is now ?, i cant focused on the other things, because it is always in my mind
 What can i do ? how can i live with it ?