Dear members,
For those who read Jetx 
my wife abuses me, here is my side of the story. My husband in a rage of anger said he was going to write to an abuse website since me (his evil wife) was abusing this innocent man. So, I read all the posts and all the info is true, but from his point of view. I am having a real hard time keeping my head above water, and I have no one to really talk to since I am a full time mother of three, have been moving  about 15 times, in the past 11 years, of which to 4 different countries, which comprises of 3 different languages. So, even though I have my lovely children and parents and family (who live a 14hr plane ride away) I have been driven to the point of insanity by my husband. It all started when we met 13 years ago during a vacation trip. Just real nice, sweet, romantic but meeting half way across the world once a month was not a reflection of reality. I worked for the airlines, LOVED my job and had benefits to travel the world and see all the parts that I could only have dreamt of. My husband met me as that beaming young woman who was in her element, just happy and giddy with giggles. He loved that about me since he came from a family who was very mentally heavy, his mother tried to commit suicide many times and she was always on anti depressants. (in the 13 years I have known her, she has never laughed or cracked a joke) (nothing wrong with that, just a complete opposite from my crazy family though) Anyway, we fell in  love, and my parents were not at all pleased since I was going half way round the world to meet some guy they didn't even know. So ,it was tough for me and I had to resist and argue with their concerns and critisisms. Anyway, I didn't care, I was so in love and would go see him, stay in a room he had rented from a family, for up to 11 hrs, while he finished his job, just so I could spend a little time with him. But when things started getting serious and he started talking marriage, it clicked to me, this is just not wise, I was from the US, he was from Europe, it was never going to work, since I would want to be in my territory and he in his. I wanted to call it off at least twice, but he cried and swear to me that he would not want to go back to his country and he would make a life with where I was. Now, his job in the airline industry was quite competetive at the time and he had to wait till some airline hired him in miami and for him to get his immigration paper work taken care off. I was in LA, and I transfered to Miami since his job was going to be there. To fast forward all this just a tad, the job in miami didn't work out for him ( I will have to end now since the battery is low, I'll continue when I have some time)thanks