Hello:  I am desperate for help. I have a 25 year old son who lives at home and has never been on his own.  He was diagnosed with ADD in 2nd grade and school was a struggle but he graduated and on time. During his puberty years his father's way of handling him were whoopins, hollaring and restriction.  From age 14 to 18 my son barely spoke to his father and his father was not supportive about his son having ADD.  My husband worked 2 jobs and was absent alot during times when my boys needed him most. My So, this is a brief back ground so you know a little what went on.  My husband later realized his faults and always tries to make up for the mistakes he's made with our sons and our marriage in the past.  He has come a long way and is a great person.  Since my oldest graduated high school he has been working for his dads company and during this time they seemed to get a long but in his job he had no real dicipline with the getting up for work and coming home but he did his job for the most part.  
 For the past year or so my sons attitude is this; he has cut his self off from his friends, says he hates people, will never get married or have children.  He quit his job working for his father to go to school for computers which his father supported him and paid his tuition for one quarter but he dropped out without telling anyone.  He was barely looking for a job for about a year unless I asked him about it and I would always help him fill out applications.  He spends all his time in his room watching television and on the computer, takes protein pills and drinks and weight lifts every day at the gym.  He says he is no longer this fat kid everybody made fun of and going to the gym is the only thing that makes him happy.  He started eating only healthy foods and lost over 85 pounds.  With his new job he goes to work from 11 AM to about 5 PM.  If his friends call him he ignores their them. He does not do recreational drugs but drinks alcohol occassionally.  When he does drink it is very excessive.  He is friends with two people; his barber who is female and a friend of the family and his boss who is a youngman he went to school with who opened up a computer business and his training my son while on the job.  In the beginning of the year I almost divorced my husband and then called it off.  We have had our problems and have been together 34 years, 25 of them married.  My son was going to move with me after the divorce and when we got back together he was not thrilled.  Recently; he will no longer participate in his brothers birthday dinners or family vacations to visit out of town family and would not attend the family gathering for Thanksgiving.  I asked him why is he does not want to be around anybody and he says he hates this house and everyone in it.  I said well then why don't you move and he laughed and said he is trying to but he's not really.  
 I pleaded with him to come to the family gathering for Thanksgiving so he could see his grandmother which could be the last holiday she may spend with us because her health is declinning but he refused to come.  He will not speak to his younger brothers for the most part but if they talk to him; he will respond but it will be short.  He originally was going to move with his younger brother but decided he really couldn't afford it. He also said that when he does move he does not want to be bothered.  I asked him why is he so mad at everyone and he said he hates people, he hates his family, etc.  We are all worried about him and don't know what to do.  His behavior frightens me and I do not want him to harm himself or try to take his own life.  I asked him if he felt depressed and he said I just hate everybody and everything and I feel this way everyday.  He said he only went to birthday dinner's before and holiday gatherings because I made him.  I asked if he wanted to talk to somebody about what is bothering him and that maybe he would feel better taking antidepressants.  I told him I take antidepressants because I have to and he got mad and said well why the f__k did you have kids when you can pass depression on to them.  
 I have had simliar conversations like this with him a few times over the past 3 or 4 years but at present he is at his worse by cutting off all his friends, hybernating in his room all day and night unless he leaves to go to work or to the gym.  He will and not speak to anyone in our house, not even me, unless I generally speak first. He definately will not talk to his father and says he won't go to family dinners and things because his dad will be there.  I know he has issues with his father but they occurred when he was a teenager.  I will not stop until I find my son help but he refuses everything and I feel their is more going on then how his dad treated him growing up.  Can anyone please advise me? I have both my arms up in the air for anyone's help.