So I would like to know if this is a trigger of my stress also? I got arrested friday afternoon(just on a stupid traffic ticket)  and I spend 5 days incarcerated. now the county I was in doesnt have a womens facility anymore so I was housed in a mens facility in a holding cell for five days and was only able to get one shower,needless to say the food was disgust! yes disgust not disgusting. as if this isnt enough right here to have me on edge I missed my ob/gyn appointment and my family doc appointment both of which I had just rescheduled so I dont know if im going to charged for the no cancellation calls. then when I do get released I dont hear from my fiance. 
i feel like he wasnt even worried about me. because I didnt hear from him until the next day. I was furious! how do you not even be around on the day tour gf gets out of jail? how do you not even know what day she getting out? how do you not call everywhere and everybody to find out whats going on your gf? he tells me he doesnt know my sisters number ok so my sister had my phone. call my phone to find out whats going on. he said 
i did check your messages. I had two messages from him TWO! I was locked up for FIVE days! Then he gets mad at me and starts yelling at me talking about im stressed out and all this blah blah blah ummm no it dont work like that im stressed out too. no you dont get mad at me when you werent doing your job. I feel as though ok maybe you dont know my sisters number or yeah my phone was dead so call the jail the would have told yeah she has court today or shell be released some time today they dont give exact times but the do let you know some time time today. I told him if the tables were turned ida been calling everybody and their grandmom to find out what was going on with him. I got even madder when my childrens father called me before he did,and he told me he called the jail to find out when I go to court? that says a lot to me. because my childrens father is the biggest as-hole I know. so am I wrong for being mad at my fiance? for being inconsiderate at least I think he was. when he does call and I answer the phone he thinks im my sister I got mad like oh what you dont know my voice? yesA i really do have anger issues but its because the small things make a phone call. you called my phone twice I should have had at least 30 messages from him not TWO!