I have a question about Zoloft dosing.  I have been prescribed a dose of 50mg. I have been taking half of that dose (25mg, of course) for about a month now.  I've noticed my depression lift exponentially; still experience some anxiety and anx attacks, though nothing I can't cognitively deal with. 
 I have always been scared of taking any medication that changes my mood, of course (anxiety), and therefore haven't taken any of the meds prescribed at their prescribed dose. I have Klonopin 0.5mg for panic attacks and just got the Zoloft a month ago (actually, I got it about 5 months ago and just started it a month ago).  When I feel a "full-blown panic attack" coming on, I break a Klonopin in half, and nip off approximately 1/6 of the half of the .5mg pill.  I know, probably a placebo, but it works for me. 
 My question is surrounding my particular dose of Zoloft.  I am still on 25mgs every day.  I tossed some of the pills that I had separated from the prescription bottle, and therefore about a month later, I had to go and get a new prescription because I was running out. I told my doctor (not the original prescriber) that I had been taking the whole 50mg, and he wants me to increase to 100 mg because I still have some anxiety, and a VERY small bit of depression, though nothing in comparison to before.  
 I have read that the half life of Zoloft is significantly smaller than that of the other A.D. meds, making me wonder if I need to continue to increase my dose due to my body's acclimation to the drug.  I am wondering:
 A: should I increase my dose if the current dose is working?
B: will Zoloft stop working if I don't continue to increase the dose? 
C: does Zoloft work for people long term?  I know not everyone is the same, but does it continue to work for some people for long periods of time?
 I understand that I am not being seen in an office and that for liability reasons, whomever replies to me probably cannot give me specific, direct advice about dosing, etc. but if you could give me some sort of generalized advice I would appreciate it, especially in regard to whether or not I should increase from 25 mg if it is already working for me.  
 I would speak with my prescribing doctor about it, but I feel like (my fault) our relationship is starting off on a bad foot because of the inaccuracy in my reporting taking certain doses. 
 Any advice would be greatly appreciated!
 ***@****
 Thanks!  I'm new, hoping to find information, answers, advice, and a few internet friends involved in the individualized cure for depression and anxiety!