We was going out for 1 year then ,we was in love , but it all started when i moved to his. he started hitting me everyday he was hitting me harder and harder and care less and make me cry but tell me to shut up and caried on hitting me.I had enough then so  i run away and he was ringing me up everyday to take him back , and i was stupid enough to believe him that he's going to change. I was young then.
So i took him back and he said if he ***** it up again i can leave him but he didn't he knew that he **** it up and started hitting me and not letting me go back home.after couple days he asked me to take nude pictures of me and i said no , he made me and i was all in tears but he didn't care he said if i don't do it he's going to beat me and took them. 
 After that i said i don't want to be with him i want to leave and he said if i'm going to leave him he's going to put all of the pictures on facebook and everyone that i know is going to laught at me etc.
I don't know what can i do to stop him or who do i tell or how to leave him!
He controlls all my life , doesn't let me do anything without his permission , like i can't laugh,cry,get up when i want , i have to do exactly what he says i have to do or he will beat me up , witha remote controller,stick or hammer , i already have loads of bruises and scars everywhere but mainly he hits my foot and toes. He does anything from punching my head in to punching or kicking my body , or elbowing my back or ribs. :(
Now i cry 24/7 sometimes when he sees me but sometimes when i am in my bedroom or bathroom and have bad times at college , i never smile now or talk , and all my friends are asking me if i am alright and what's wrong with me . I used to be very happy and smiley,talkative person. I can't do this anymore I want to leave him but i can't he keeps me in his house i haven't got key because of the last time , he says i will never have key anymore. 
He swears at me everyday and expects me to be nice to him which i can't do because i don't want to be with him so he makes me to be nice to him when he beats me up i already had black eyes 3 times and haven't seen my family because of that. he decides everything for me and when i can go out or when i can see my family.   now im his for over 2 years :(
Any advice here please!!