I don't deal with stress well and avoid conflict most of the time. I got really p*ss*d at work at my manager and avoided her calling my name as I new that I wasn't in a good mood to react to her. She forced me into it and I shot back at her rudely. Of course I got into trouble lol. But she handled the sit. just as poorly responding with the same tune and talking about me in the heat of the moment in front of other employees. She asked to see me in the office At witch time I fully was already in a breakdown and panic attack. I was having a mixed episode of my bipolar. But to get to the question at hand When she questioned me I couldn't respond or look her in the face. I think these problems are the Schizophrenia effects off my disorder. I have always been like this. There is little I can find about how my illness effects my responses but I get like this a lot. I planned on talking to her but I am at a loss for words so I wouldn't evan look her in the face yesterday at work. I'm not sure how to handle this and Id like to know more about how it can effect the way I think. I know I'm at a loss for words in stress and sometimes in other situations too. She told me she doesn't care what is going on in my life I wont ignore her but I'm not sure I can do that if its a stressful situation. I think she thinks that personal matters are to blame but I think my personal matters escalated my mixed episode  so it would be both. I do not feel comfortable talking to her about it so I went above her head to my general manager and told him the whole story and he said hed take care of it. So needless to say she'll probably hate me forever lol.  Im going back to him to see if I can get my warning removed from my file. I'm am trying to get stable and wanting to become a trainer. I think this will effect that. So again I'm going to go to my general manager and let him know. I thought Id become more stable but the uncontrollable crying and panic attacks came back. This is the hardest for me to deal with. And it's very embarrassing to have a breakdown at work. I know that I'm protected under law for this but Id rather be stable than this. :( crashed down and very unstable :( need help! And advice