okay so my family is going through a bit of a hard time right now. im 14 (female) and have a family of five. my oldest brother is in first yr univercity and my parents started having a little money problems. it was no big deal until 
my mom lost her job. then it got hard. then there were rumors that my dad was going to lose his job which was our main income. so evrything got a little stressfull because we didnt know when it was going to happen. ontop of that the middle child (or my other older brother) was getting into some school problems. so then my parents were stressed about that. and then i was also having some school problems but me and my older brothers problems are different, he has acedemic problems. when im having social problems. but just like my whole life my parents just didnt think those types of problems are valid for worrying. they n.e.v.e.r even bpther to wory about me! and if i do bring somthing up they think im overreacting and if i get all upset and get in a fight they say im being selfish because they have bigger problems! im always not worth there time. im a good kid who never gets into acedemic trouble or fist fights but my social life is important to me. and its crappy right now. according to my mother im "needy" towards my friends and that will drive them away. and my dad just yells. so now i have been angry at them and they just think im being selfish. just because they have bigger problems does that mean that mine dont matter? my best friend is not thebest judje of character and always gets to be friends with som1 who uses and follows her like a dog. and now this dog is trying her hardest to push me away and insult me. im bad at making friends with multiple people so i always just have one really great friend. sadly thats not my best friend. and she has to have many. which im fine with im not posesive. but thats how she sees me right now evan though the friend she made is evil in descise. (she dosnt show it infront of my best friend). and with the new school and all im bad at first impressions so its hard for me to make friends. wat do i do???