This is my story~~
 I am a 19 year old girl from Quebec Canada. Two years ago i was raped on a date, i was not drugged or drunk, after he raped me he let me go, i ran shoeless in the snow, hid behind a minivan and called my friend who picked me up. I was driven to the police station and then the hospital where i was examined. It was two years before the courts passed my case and in that time I had vicious nightmares, but i went to counseling and did everything in my power to make myself healthy. In court he claimed that the we had "ruff sex", none of his lies added up, he kept tripping over them because he couldn't get his story straight. I told the absolute truth but it didn't matter. Most people don't realize how criminal court works, but it's designed to protect the defendant from loss of freedom(prison), in that in order to win the case the witness(me) has to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt(100%) that the defendant is lying. To do this i would need physical evidence that it was rape and because he claimed it was ruff sex, all the evidence collected off my body didn't matter because of the possibility that it really was just ruff sex. He justified my traumatic response to our supposed sex by explaining that i had been a virgin and therefore i was regretful and i hadn't understood how sex worked. Because of the way the law works, whatever he says, even if it doesn't add up or sound right, the judge must take it as truth unless something can completely prove he is lying. Since his lies made it impossible for me to prove anything, there is now a rapist living less than 10 minutes away from me, who could probably rape me or anyone else again and get away with it every time. The law is set up so that it is nearly impossible to convict a rapist, which is why only 6% of rapists will ever spend a day in jail. This is wrong, so wrong and it left me feeling hopeless, i meant the system is screwed up, there's no way to win and there's no way to fight it. Please give me your opinion on this.