Hello.  I am new to this site.  My husband has observed some of my health patterns and thinks I should look into it further.  I will start from the beginning:
 First, my body reacts terribly to stress.  It makes me nauseous and causes me to lose my appetite.  Because of this, I lose a lot of weight when I am stressed out.  A couple of years ago, my parents were going through a divorce and there were other emotional stressors taking place in my life as well.  During this time, I lost 15-20 pounds.  I am 5'8", and weighed 115 pounds during their divorce.  Since then, I am glad to say that my situation has improved greatly.  I am a newly wed, and am happier than I ever thought I could be.  I have gained the weight back, and I am back up to 135 pounds.  I feel MUCH better.  
 During this "skinny" time, however, there were many times when I would become ravenously hungry.  My roommates would call them my "hunger fits".  I would become extremely irratable and would start to feel bad unless I ate something.  This occured a few times before the skinny period, but started happening more during the skinny period.  Now that I have gained my weight back, I still get very irritable and feel horrible before meal time or if I need a snack.  At one point over a year ago, I had a fainting spell and was put on an IV in the ER.  they told me I probably had a virus, but I felt much better almost instantly after the IV was administered.  From what I understand, these are symptoms of hypoglycemia.  My mom and aunt have hypoglycemia, and I think I have similar symptoms, though I've never been diagnosed.  I am not diabetic, and the only medication I am on is birth control--a medicine I was not on during my skinny time.  
 My main question is--are poor stress management, weight loss due to low appetite and therefore poor diet, and hypoglycemia-like symptoms all related?  Does one exacerbate the other?  What are some natural remedies for these problems either together or in isolation?  When is it time to see a doctor?
 Thanks for the help.