Anyone that is going through depression and feel that they never will overcone it please read my story. I pray to god that it will help those out there that the system has let down. i pray tgat it will give soneone strength. also anyone who has overcone depression post how and their story below.
 When I was around 13 and up til i was 15 i went through alot of heart break all at once. I had my younger brother taken from me, by his real mom. I was always trying to be perfect at all I did. So when I made a c in social studies it took a hit on me as well. Then when I turned 15, 3 people I was close to passed away. They were the first funerals I ever had to attend. I started counseling but they just tried to say my depression and issues were due to my parents. They put me on Zoloft to balance me out stating that I was bipolar like my mom. I admit my emotions were all over the place and hit me hard. I never once felt my parents were to blame though. Yes my mom put me through alot, due to her being bipolar and my parents were no wgere near perfect. And yes my childhood wasn't easy. But that is all another story. The truth is no ones parents are perfect nor should they have to be.
 The fact of the matter is at 17 they wanted to up my prescription. They said that I was starting to struggle even more with my bipolar disorder and that my body had become immune to the prescription. My boyfriend of two years broke up with me right after they uped my prescription. With all this i did something that I never thought I would I took the whole bottle of Zoloft. Hoping that it would end my life. Instead it just made me sick and I felt stupid. I never have told anyone that before. But it is true. Then I stayed home for two days in tears. I tried to go back to school on the third day realizing it wasn't worth all this sadness. But at school something triggered an emotional break down. I stated crying and didn't want to be there. I called home and got a ride home stating that I was still sick. 
 By now you are probably wondering when this story becomes encouraging. Well here it goes on that day on my ride home I realized that I only was sad and depressed and so emotional because I didn't want to deal with the pains of life. Plus I never had been taught to. My mom never did the doctors always tons her she was bipolar and gave her am excuse not to try. My dad always bottled up everything. I still don't blame them they were taught the same thing not to face their issues. So, I went home and wrote down all my feelings I began a journal that instead of events contained my emotions. This helped me get out all I was feeling and all the hurt. Then I told my mom I didn't want counseling nor to be on pills anymore. She could tell I was for real and said she would stand by me.
 I am not going to say it was easy, but every time I felt overwhelmed I would write and find a way to overcome those negative feelings. If I felt a need to talk to someone I made sure it was someone emotional sound and that could give good advice. I broke free of being called bipolar in fact I was told I may have been missed dxs. I broke free of it all. This hasn't been an easy journey and about three years back I almost lost control again. But at that time I found my faith and God. Praying really helps me feel peace and reminds me that I don't always have complete control. God is in control and he sent his son to save us. Which means that when I feel lost I can turn to him and leave those feelings at the cross. I seek guidance and find that sometimes just finding someone to relate to is enough. So I have posted on here when I feel down. I can honestly say that I have overcome depression and being dxs bipolar without losing myself. I pray that my story encourages others to find themselves again.
 Writing, God, talking to others who have been through what I have helps me find peace and not stay down. Everyone is able to find happiness in their lives. I know that for some what I have done wont work but find your own help in this crazy world we live in and let nothing still your joy.