I've been diagnosed with bi-polar disorder and borderline personality disorder.  I'm not sure which forum to post in.  Anyway I have just gotten off Vicodin....going on my 9th day.  I've gotten of it before.  I was on it for 14 years and then went off CT.  I went back on because of a kidney stone...stupid!  I should have known I couldn't have handled it.  Anyway, that was like 7 months ago.  I've been milking it for a while.
 Then I got blurred vision last year.  It just came out of nowhere.  It's not my glasses because I've been to many eye doctors and Opthomologists.  Most say I'm either overcorrected, but even a lower prescription only helped slightly.  I'm nearsighted....have been all my life but for the last 8 months or so my vision just got blurry, it seems almost overnight!
 I thought it might be related to meds at first.  I was taking Welbutrin, Lamictal, Lunesta....something else I think.  Anyway I stopped them for a week and then switched to Prozac and Trileptal and Seroquel.  I'm now gonna stop everything, save Lunesta....I don't know...I guess I should stop that too, but I just want to sleep so bad.
 I was taking Clonidine just for the w/d's of the Vicodin.  I felt better on day 5 than I do now.  I know what happens when I start feeling real bad for 4 or 5 days.  It just gets soooo bad.  The best way I could describe is I feel like I'm possessed or something.  I get hypersensitive senses...everything bothers me, I'm a ball of nerves and it's the very worst feeling (save from almost drowning once) I've ever felt!  It feels like the Clonidine and the Seroquel only delayed w/d's or something....I don't know.  The last time I went off Vicodin, it wasn't like this.  I mean it wasn't fun but I continually got better.  I did eventually fall into a depression again, but it wasn't like I am now.
 I know it's got to be the Vicodin still and I'm sure the blurred vision plays a part because that really depresses me too, but this is like super anxiety.  I feel like I'm gonna go mad.  I don't feel like I'm gonna go mad if I don't get Vicodin, I just feel like I might crazy.  I know it's just a feeling, I've dealt with it before but it can feel as real as reality!
 I know it's probably not good that I'm going off everything...well most everything.  I'm trying to get up a little bit.  I took a Prozac yesterday.  I don't know why I did...it doesn't just work like a Vicodin, I guess I'd like to think it does.  I just want to know if it's meds causing my blurriness.  It's the worst time to go off of them but I also don't like how the Seroquel makes me feel.  I often get involuntary body movements from it, which is strange because only a few people get them.....something like 4% or so...well I'm part of that.  I also am one of the few apparently according to many sites like drugs.com that say around that same percentage people get weight gain too.  I had lost weight and gained it all back with the Seroquel.  So Seroquel also says it can cause blurriness.  That could explain why I still have it but that doesn't explain why it started.  I wasn't taking Seroquel when it started.
 Anyway, I guess I'll make it through...for the moment I'm feeling a little better.  I'm just scared and it really ***** because there's nothing I can that will make this thing go away I don't think.