My latest romantic crush has BPD.  She thinks in black and white, think the world is a dark place, has anorexia, and many other kinds of behaviors like that.  I love her dearly.  These things don't make me care less.  At the time, I knew nothing about BPD.  I tried to help her to change.  A fact she ressented.  I realise the error, now.  I would like to be a relationship with her.  I know it will be hard, but I do not believe in throwing away another human being because she is not perfect.  In other words, I know fully what I'm going toward.  I do not want a perfect relationship.  I do know it will alternatve between me being seen in a very favourable light, and then I will be nothing.  And I will have to endure that, be calm in the face of extreme difficulties, it is a dark road.  I see the risks, the low reward.  And in the end, I made my choice.  I guess when I love someone, I'm ready to endure.  The only satisfaction I might get might be during the times where I'm able to show compassion in face of high difficulties. I might have satisfaction from doing the right thing.
 Sadly, we fell appart, a few months ago.  She didn't want to see me for 40 days.  When she wrote to me about it, I had started dating a new girl... After a month where she didn't see me.  We didn't date for more than two months. This made her very very angry.  I thought she didn't really care about me.  But her intense anger seems to have shown otherwise.
 She currently has very mixed feelings about me.  She says she does not care about me and she cares about me, in the same E-mail.  In one E-mail she said she didn't want to see me again, in another it is less clear.  Anyway,  I realise what I have to do:  Read on the topic of borderline, something that was new to me.  Learn how to have the best kind of relationship I can have with her.  
 But now, I would like to get her back.
 What can I do?  She means a lot to me.  She says she does not want me to go away if I meet someone else.  (I thought she didn't want me, and this is why I dated another girl).  She says she does not want a relationship where I suffer.  I know there will be suffering.  I'm not angry, do not blame her.  It is part of the difficulties we will have.  She says I was just an amusement, and that she is bored with me, now.  She says she still has respect for me.
 Thank you all for your help.