i never really feel good mentally. it seems like i never could experience pleasure or true happiness. seems like many of the times i thought i was happy it was all just an illusion i fell for. honestly the only thing i seem to enjoy is hanging out with friends or playing video games. im pissed off no matter what i do or where i go otherwise. i get so aggravated so easy. i cant even find a job i enjoy. years ago i hated the management where i worked so i quit. found another job and 1 bad customer will ruin my whole week. the ones that act like jerks i honestly think i would feel satisfaction if they dropped dead. i could never imagine acting the way some of these people do. i've gotten so pissed off at people i've had panic attacks, passed out, then had to go home. i feel like i will never fit properly into the working world. yeah i get complimented when i do a good job but sometimes i feel like im the only one who really cares. other workers make me angry inside sometimes because of stupidity although i have to hold it in because i like to try my best to be nice at work and not stress other people out even further. then women i dont know how to start. yeah it is a problem we all have. it's like high school or college it's much easier because of the expanded social circle. then after you get older everyone is either taken, not attractive enough, or has kids. im afraid to meet other social circles because i have a really hard time trusting anyone except for a select few people i know really good. im afraid of all those dating sites because i've been warned a lot of them are just an aids fest. i've deathly scared of stds. i think the only truely good thing i have going is i have a good family life. i take medication for depression but it just makes me feel less depressed. i still dont file like everything is all fine and dandy. i tried taking more of it and it didnt do anything. i get fits of rage at times. i've done things i've regretted many times. even driving i get so mad. i've calmed down a bit over the years as far as passing slow drivers and flipping them off. but i still get real angry at other drivers when they act like idiots. a long time ago i've even had a major physical altercation with another driver. im lucky police didnt get involved.