Hello. I am a teenager of 16. For the past few weeks now i have been feeling blue, frustrated and almost lonely and at times i find myself crying and i can't always explain WHY. I'm scared that i'm becoming depressed. I've been trying to find reasons for why i feel this way. My schooling i guess is doing alright i have almost all B's in my classes.... My friendship relationships are okay i guess, i havent gotten into fights or emotional stages with them. No one has died in my family. And i havent experienced any losses or grief in my life yet. The only things that i have noticed about myself is that i'm eating a little less than usual, and i'm sleeping a little longer. I usually sleep 8 or 7 hours, and now i'm sleeping 10 to 12 (growing?). The only likely thing i can think of is my new relationship with a guy. We've been going out for the past month now. And maybe its because i'm a girl, or because i'm still young and its normal to have ideas in my head. He doesn't respond to my e-mails as much as he use to, and our conversations are becoming shorter each time. I'm not sure if i'm doing something wrong, or if he's loosing interest, he says he's not trying to avoid me and he's still very interested. Mom says its because young guys are dense and don't know how to express themselves as well as girls. Maybe i feel bad because i havent been able to spend alot of time with him, mostly becase of his Mega-B mother. Although i still have butterflies when i'm around him, i'm not smiling as much. Actually, according to my parents, i havent been smiling alot lately.... I can't remember when i last had a good laugh. I'm always feeling that i'm doing something wrong, it seems that most people are becoming impatient with me. And do you ever feel like... you do things, like school, boyfriend girlfriend, careers.... because you HAVE to? i mean, whats the point when you know that half of you're life is already spelled out for you? You know that you have to pass in school, you know you're going to be married or not, you know what you're 'dream career' is, and you know that eventually, you're going to die. It feels, like there's nothing really significant about the world most of the time. It feels like we're all about to kill each other over issues that no one can solve. It feels like everyone is alone. It feels like everyone's smiling and i'm not, laughing and i'm not, and everyone feels good and i don't. It feels at times like everyone looks down at me, like an insect, and it feels like i can never find someone who will truly care because you can't trust anyone. And it feels as if there's no point......... I don't want to be pinned down by these thoughts........... so what the hecks wrong with me?