Ok this is probably going to be long winded but just a back story....I am separated from my 7 year old sons father, he has no contact or input (not really a problem for me or my son, he has great male role models and his father wouldnt be what you'd call an "ideal" father figure anyway) and my current partner has 4 kids with his ex.....we're both separated almost 5 years and met a year ago.
We've just recently met each others children and introduced them to each other as well....all went great for the first while, enjoyable days out, no hassle or awkwardness.....but now things have changed.
My partner is planning to move soon because the area he's living in is too expensive and his eldest wants to live with him, he's moving closer to family so he'll have support for his daughter while he's working, problem is his ex has told all the children the reason for his move is me, this woman has a BPD diagnosis (which i've read up on a lot purely to try to understand the behaviour and past experiences of my partner) and seems to be out to cause as much trouble in my relationship as she can even though she's never met me and her and my partner have been split up a long time.......
My biggest worry with this is how the kids will view me and how is affecting them. His youngest daughter has now taken to clinging to him and glaring at me telling me that he's "her daddy" and i'm not allowed near him at all. I think so far I've been handling it ok, backing off and letting her mark her territory and explaining gently that he's her dad and he couldnt be that to me. She swings back and forth with it, for a while she's the way she was before, very sweet and chatty and relaxed and then she acts really territorial and angry......her siblings have told her dad that the mother keeps telling them their father doesnt care about them and all he cares about is me and my son.....
Its so far from the truth, my partner is an incredible dad and runs himself in to the ground trying to keep stability for his kids. 
So my question is, How do i handle this without A. Alienating myself from the kids (who i really like just as a side note!)
B.Antagonising the mother further (even though i dont think i've done anything in the first place besides date her ex husband)
 Any advice or past experiences would be massively appreciated,
thanks in advance