Soo... My friend here... Lets name her Lynn, I dont want to put names out there. Lynn is a cutter, well, so am I, but I don't see anything wrong with cutting yourself. It's not like we want to die, it just keeps me 'icy'.(Lynns parents know that she cutts herself, mine on the other hand...) Lynns parents are crazy, like literally, I think. They yell at her for no reason, and I think her parents are always under stress. Lynn is 13, and she was 3 brothers between the ages 5-9. She also has a baby sister. Therefore, shes the oldest, and I think her parents take everything out on her through words. I feel kinda bad. But then, Lynn didn't talk to us (me and my friends) and she was kinda like a disease. She went through different people, hanging out with them, others longer than some. I don't find this a problem, she made her choices, and were not best friends, but I still talk to her.
   One day, my best friend... Im gonna call her Summer, walked out of the bathroom as pale as I've ever seen someone before. I was freaking out, and she told me in private that she just saw Lynn make herself puke. Lynn was crying, tell Summer to keep quiet about it. She said she was just sick, and sometimes she came in the bathroom. Thats bull! When Lynn use to sit with us, every day, towards the end of lunch, she'd go to the bathroom. One week it was because of her period, the next was some kind of stomach viruis. I dunno, tons of excuses. I never really thought twice about it. Summer and I haven't told anybody, but Lynn knows, that I know. To me, cutting yourself is okay, you can see the cuts on the OUTSIDE, and you know whats going on. Lynn, a very skinny girl, puking every day? Thats something on the INSIDE, and she has no idea if she is really hurting herself. I think she makes herself, because she really does complain about her being fat, and shes only like, 120 pounds. Thats not bad for a 13 year old girl! I'm really worried, but then again, I'm not that worried. But I don't want her hurting herself, what should I do?