I have a been a step parent to two for a little over ten years. I have always had a really good relationship with both of the kids, SS 17 and SD 14. My husband has always been very supportive and our relationship with his ex has been fairly drama free, we have always gone to great lengths to insure this. 
 My SD just started high school this year, and over the last year her BM seems to be almost clinging to her, she calls her 3-4 times a day, and is always showing up at events to spend extra time with her. SD doesn't seem to mind, in fact she seems to think it just shows how much her BM cares about her. We have tried not to respond in kind, thinking that one hovering parent is enough. However my DH has received two phone calls in the past year from SD in tears about how he doesn't seem excited or proud enough of her and why didn't he come to her soccer game that was two hours away, etc., etc.  It is really difficult to be compared to SD's BM, she has made SD the center of her universe, even at the expense of SS. My husband is one of the most loving and affectionate men I have ever met, and is constantly telling his kids how proud his and how much he loves them.  Today, my DH gave SD a ride to a volleyball game at the high school. He would have gone with her, but didn't want to intrude on her first high school event. SD texted him a few minutes ago saying that her BM was coming to the game and could they go to lunch together.  Writing this down makes it seem somewhat trite, but it is frustrating and somewhat hurtful when we are trying to give her space and BM takes advantage of that space and SD seems to appreciate it.  I wonder at times like this if we should let SD know that it hurts our feelings, or maybe we should address BM and let her know we don't appreciate her cutting in on things. We don't want SD to feel caught in the middle, but we want her to know we care. And BM seems to be getting more and more pushy and obvious about things. Any thoughts or advice would be greatly appreciated.