I am 29 and have had a couple therapists in the past tell me I have Borderline Personality Disorder, but have never truly been diagnosed.Two years ago I had various part time jobs(I had three at one point) and was engaging in various unhealthy impulsive behaviors.  For a long time, my father wanted me to try teaching full time(way better pay, benefits, etc.). So finally I seriously pursued a teaching job and landed one at a public elementary school. I was extremely afraid of teaching in a public school setting, and I guess I was afraid that if I didn't get my sh*t together eventually, my parents were just going to cut me off in every way shape and form.My boyfriend and I met a few months before I began teaching and I know at the time I wanted to be rescued from my big bad parents who were "forcing me" to do something I didn't want to do.  However I did have extremely severe anxiety for at least a month leading up to teaching and only lasted two months teaching.  I was stressed couldn't sleep and was extremely flustered at work.  The idea of sticking to one job, all day everyday for the rest of my life seemed incomprehensible, let alone mortifying.As the honeymoon phase of my relationship with my boyfriend wore off, he saw a different twisted side of me that often wanted to push him away or hurt him and then makeup.  I really didn't feel like I had much control over the things I said to him.  After quitting my job, breaking up with my boyfriend, and having sex with a couple strangers, I felt I was ready to go since my life was over.  My boyfriend had come to my apartment I think cuz he was concerned and saw what was happening.  He helped me move back to town, confronted my father(whom I vilified because I didn't want to feel like such an idiot/failure), and told me to apply for disability.  I complied and whatever social life or skills I had before quickly went down the drain.  I got my iud out because it hurt and my boyfriend wanted to have a baby despite neither of us working full time.  So I got pregnant despite the fact that I knew it was irresponsible.  For a long while I didn't notice I was pregnant.  When I realized, I began to do everything I could to take care of myself.  EEmily Riderto me0 minutes agoDetailsI've been in a lot of emotional pain since middle school and am now 29.  Basically I just had a baby two months ago by way of an unplanned pregnancy.  I had to give my baby to my brother and his family after three weeks of taking care of him because I was so depressed the last day I couldn't get out of bed.  I took very good care of him, but really could not feel connected or very bonded with him...My brother and his wife are now temporary guardians, which means that if I learn to cope better and feel I can fully function, and also work a full time job within the course of 18 months, I could get him back...I really am not sure what I want though with all this.  I think if he is happy with my brother's family then they should keep him...seeing as I have never accomplished any of the above mentioned goals for longer than a couple months at a time....The truth is that getting better involves a lot of pain and it would be way easier to just stick with the amount of pain I already tolerate on a regular basis than to change.Anyways... I don't think I really want to get better enough.  It seems like when I try I overexert myself in trying and then quickly give up out of exhaustion.  Overkill...For instance, I installed an app on my phone to help me monitor/understand my moods.  It took a LOT of mental focus to disregard the anxiety I was feeling for the last couple days and record my moods/get in touch with what I was actually feeling and why in a very detailed and thorough manner. I did it for a couple days and then felt really depressed, so I stopped yesterday.  It feels so much better not recording my moods or being so extremely aware of them.  Is this common for bpd...not really wanting to be in touch with your emotions?...and not being able to regulate how much is too much(maybe I could have made ten records of my mood changes, but instead I did twenty and was exhausted)?My thing is that on a day like yesterday, my mind went in the opposite direction of trying and really was trying to think of every way out, including various self-destructive scenarios(sex, drugs, alcohol, suicide)... It always seems beforehand that it will feel good or at least stop the pain and solve everything..I don't want to try sometimes...to get better.  I get discouraged REALLY easily.  Sometimes I feel like its an accomplishment in itself that I am still alive and breathing...but when I say this outloud it seems silly-- I realize that I can do much more than live and breathe.  Sometimes it does seem really enticing to just be incredibly reckless... To try and find a way out.  Why is it SO painful to get in touch with my feelings?  I would think that would be the best way to resolve all this dissociating that I do.  It seems impossible to be here in the moment sometimes, instead of being somewhere else in my mind.  I don't really know how to help myself or where to start.  I know therapy made me feel better momentarily, but look where I am now...broke, miserable, and even more lonely than before if that's even possible.  I know becoming healthier takes a lot of time and effort and wonder if it's even worth it.