I was a member here over a year back but left when my life began falling apart. The opposite of what I should have done.
Now I find myself needing a little support after locking myself away in the dark for so long. 
 My husband up and left me a little over a year ago. Although our marriage was very difficult his leaving came as a shock because he literally disapeared. 
But the actual divorce isn't what is bothering me. The way I behaved and reacted to being married is. I experienced sexual abuse by a family member as a child and never delt with it. I tried to bury it away and was pretty successful in many ways. Unfortunitly the effects of the abuse on my ability to have healthy relationships couldn't be hidden. 
I've always had problems with sex and although I detached during it and felt empty and most times used afterwards, I craved it when I was with someone.
But with my marriage came problems that have sent me into complete confusion and fear of ever getting emotionally involved again. 
My x-husband and I had a healthy sex life when we first met and moved in together. But the closer we got the more I backed off from that part of the relationship. By the time we got married I was so turned off by sex the thought made me feel sick to my stomach. I couldn't even sleep in the same bed as he did. 
I loved him deeply. I found him exreamly attractive but somewhere along the way my body shut down. I have a pain condition that just happened to occur around the time I became unable to engage sexually. This pain condition I have causes pain in key areas needed during intamacy. Hope that's not TMI. 
I don't believe my condition to be just in my head because there is real tissue damage that can be seen. But I do think there's a correlation between all of this. 
 I really wanted my marriage to work and so thought if I could get help for what happened when I was a child I could begin having sex again regardless of the pain and it may save my marriage. But just as I was emotionally able to start dealing with it and just as I began being open with him he left. 
I can't help but think he saw me as damaged goods and decided to get out as quickly as possible. He did figure out on his own something had happened to me as a child because of my sleeping habits(I would have terrible nightmares, jump from bed screaming and couldn't be suddenly touched in the middle of the night while I was asleep) but I never came out with specifics. 
So here I am now divorced, petrified of emotional intamacy with men more than ever but involving myself in a sexual relationship with a man I've known for 15 years. Wanting more but so afraid because of being abandoned by my x-husband and the issues I've harbored for so long. 
I know therapy is in order. But I guess I'm wondering if anyone can relate to this. More specifically, am I alone in all of this?
 I don't want to end what I have with this man. But the times I've slept over I've begun my nightime problems such as waking up in a visable panic. I'm afraid he's going to think I'm insane if it keeps happening and I don't want him to know what I'm going through because I'm afraid just as my x wanted nothing to do with me when he found out this man will run for the hills also. 
It all sounds like a mess I know. inot sure if its even coming out the right way!
I really hope someone can relate to some of this because I feel alone in all of these "new" fears and issues.