Hello. 
First off, my name is Kyla. I am a 25 year old female, with one daughter. 
I'm here because I'm in desperate need for advice. I should probably give some back story. When I was about 7 years old, I noticed a small lump on the side of my neck. I was taken to the doctor, and was told that it was nothing to worry about and to just keep an eye on it. When I was 16, the lump had gotten a bit larger. I was sent for a CT scan. I can't remember the measurements or specifics of the results, but I do remember them saying that it was deeply rooted into the muscles of my neck and that it needed to come out. I think they called it a 'fatty tumor'. Due to the fact that I was underage and some personal circumstances, it was my removed. Now, at 25, it has gotten larger. It's uncomfortable (sometimes painful) to turn my head. I went to the doctor (different one from when I was little) and she seemed concerned, and sent me for a CT scan. The results said I had a 5.8 x 3.7 x 2.3 cm mass deeply set into the right side of my neck with multiple overly large lymph nodes surrounding it. It also stated that 'lymphoma is a strong possibility'. As far as the CT scan went, they didn't find any other masses. So far, I have set up an appointment for a biopsy on the 7th of July. 
But, since learning all this, I have been terrified and my anxiety has been through the roof. I need advice, even if you think I do have lymphoma. What happens during a biopsy? How long does it take to get the results? How long is it usually between the consultant appointment and the actual biopsy? I'm not sure what kind of side effects that I could have that would be linked with it. I'm tired constantly, but I'm also a mom with a full time job and go to school. I have acid reflux and heartburn like symptoms. I get severe pains in the left side of my stomach sometimes. I have extremely high anxiety, that I take medication for. I also get random bouts of vomiting and diarrhea, and headaches that I usually take 2-4 IBUPROFEN a day for. I usually brush all of this off though, blaming my anxiety/nervousness or my busy schedule. 
I know most of this is just jumbled thoughts, but I would appreciate any information anyone can give me. Thank you!