I made a mistake after I lost my son back in october to SIDS. I met this guy that was there for me and he tried to get me pregnant he says. I didnt sleep with him a lot in November but it was enough to know that i am not positive on the very last day that we did it. I do believe that it was before thanksgiving and then i stopped going over to his place because i was miserable about what i was doing. i just let him text and call all the time but made up excuses as to why i couldnt come over to see him, figuring he would get bored or something and move on. he never finished inside of me. i always told him to pull out and i always told him that i didnt want to get pregnant and that if he did finish inside of me id never speak to him again. that always seemed to annoy and anger him but i stuck to it. every time i did it with him i went to his bathroom ashamed with myself and used toilet paper to clean anything left in there out of me then went to my place and showered and cleaned up then i took one of my birth control pills. i got my period at the end of november like i was supposed to and i then said to myself ok this is why you need to stay away from him cause if you go back there then he will only try to get you to sleep with him like always and what if he is so dead set on getting you pregnant that he lies about pulling out in time? in december i went to the store and bought an ovulation test (this was around the 8th-12th) and i came home that night and took it. the result was that i was ovulating so my boyfriend and i made love and he finished inside of me like he always does. we had been trying to have a baby but since i was doing what i was doing (he had been doing stuff behind my back as well) i did what i could to try and not let the other guy get me knocked up so it ruined my chances of conceiving with my bf that november. i was determined to get pregnant with my bf so we could have the life we once had again and i could ignore this guy forever and never speak to him again and be happy again. the days that followed we would make love and everytime we did my bf would finish inside of me. on the 28th i decided enough time had passed and i wanted to know if i was going to pregnant and we succeeded or if i was going to get another period. i took a test and it came out positive. upon going to the doctor they said that my baby was measuring to be due on september 1st. now that time has passed quite a bit and we moved far away from this guy and im fixing to have this baby anytime now in the next few weeks..he has found out that i was pregnant via my facebook page which he was blocked from but had a friend of mine telling him what my statuses said. so he found out i was pregnant and got him a lawyer and is trying to take me to court to get a paternity test because he said that its his baby and not my bf's and he wants to throw an injunction on me to force me to move near him so that he can try to make us a family. my bf knows all of this and he is thinking its his baby too so he will be there when he is born. my new doctor says i am actually due on september 3rd and she stated that i ovulated on the 11th or 12th of december. the other guy says that (this is based off a lie i told him) &quot;its my baby you slept with me then you didnt sleep with anyone else and you started working doubles all the time so you werent even home at all so your bf couldnt have gotten you pregnant cause i tried hard to get you pregnant.&quot; i am in a terrible&nbsp;mess now and i dont know what to do. ive read that the shettles method claims that if you have sex on or near ovulation you will get a boy and the baby is a boy. i have such a clear and amazing face shot of my new baby where the features are greatly defined and in comparison of my bf's newborn picture and pictures of our first son..they look so much alike. he has the exact same nose my bf has. the other guy says he was a colicy and very large baby and his mother had lots of symptoms. i had none with both of these pregnancies and my belly has been the exact same as it was with my first one. also our fist one was 7lbs. 2 oz. and my bf was almost 7 i was 8lbs. 8 oz. ..they said so far this baby is almost 7 lbs. i just want to know what the chances are of this other guy actually being the father of this baby will be. it is going to destroy my bf if he stands there by my side all those hours and when this baby comes out for him to find out its not his by looking at his face. this will kill him. it will kill me and most importantly it will mess up this baby's life. i made a big mistake and im scared to death now. i dont have much time..just a few more weeks and it kills me to see and hear my bf talk about this baby and feel him and get excited for him to come out. i dont know what to do if its not his, he is going to break down hard. he already tried to commit suicide when we lost our first one cause he thought it was his fault since he was the only one home when he died. he is dying to be a daddy, i dont want to rip that away from him too and he doesnt want to lose me along with it. weve been together almost 10 years and weve been wanting to get married after we know who the dad is and go to counseling so we can talk about the things we did and talk about when we lost our son since its such a sore subject.