I'm a young woman who's been struggling with low self-esteem from events that happened in my childhood. I've been struggling with the guilt of a perpetrator. From ages 9 to 10 I engaged in sexual behavior with a younger female cousin. She's three years younger. I'm not sure exactly when it started. She mentioned to me that she and another female cousin had been playing house with dolls.  Being curious, I asked her if we could indulge in similar play except not with dolls. She said yes.  This game of ours happened on three occasions I think. There was some dry-humping fully clothed, kissing, and touching of genitals that happened once. I do think I knew this was wrong to some extent, maybe I just didn't understand the seriousness of our behavior. 
 We "played" like this once in front of her stepfather under the covers. He definitely knew what we were doing but didn't say anything.  A short time afterwards, my cousin's mother made a comment to mine about my cousin's figure that shocked me. She implied that someone might have been doing something to her.
 That's when I knew what we were doing had to stop. I was so ashamed. I don't think my cousin understood because she wanted to play our game more after this. I told her no. It told her how wrong it was.
 It didn't start to have a real affect me until the eighth grade when it became clear that we had been found out by my cousin's mother, though she never brought it up to my parents she made a lot of comments. She even implied that I wanted to harm my baby cousin because I was looking at her. 
 This hurt me deeply. I'd always been a shy person but afterwards I became even more drawn in. I rarely left the house. I began to feel detached from everything. I felt like I wasn't here at all, like I was in some trance. A dream like state. I became increasingly paranoid. I lost all interest in school and started skipping class. But no one could see that something was wrong with me, so I kept quiet. I thought this feeling would pass. 
 High school, I thought, would be a breath of fresh air. It was at first. I made friends. I tried to ignore my feelings. I thought maybe if I pretended I would be okay. But I was shy and awkward. An easy target for bullies. My mental state became worse overtime. By sixteen, I couldn't take it anymore. I snapped. My parents took me to see a psychologist. When I was asked about trauma, I'd tell them the partial truth. I never mentioned what I know now to be the underlying cause, all of the shame and guilt I felt. I told myself that I deserved to be crazy. It was karma. I was a terrible person.
 Recently, I finally confessed to my mother. She told me to forgive myself. All children do this. Talking to her did help but the guilt and shame did creep up again. Therapy would be a great option if I could afford it.
 I've wanted to apologize but wondered if it would only dredge up feelings that weren't a big deal to begin with. My former psychiatrist mentioned once that I'm an anxious person. With my bad childhood behavior and the bullying, I've just dissapperad within myself completely. I can't even see myself being in a real relationship with anyone.   
 I was never sexually abused as a child, but on more than one occasion I was exposed to adult content. Though I didn't know it then, it left a major mark on me. Though my experimenting never continued past my cousin, I can't shake the feeling that I might have ruined her life and mine without meaning to. I've tried to keep up with her via social media. She seems fine. She's dating and has tons of friends. I know I'll never know how she truly feels without talking to her. I hope I'll get the chance to someday.
 A part of me is angry and wishes my parents had been informed. Maybe then I would have received some assistance. I do also think that there was some amount of bullying from my aunt and her sisters. This was always done behind my parents backs. They definitely hold this against me. I certainly understand why.
 I feel caged in by my past. I don't know how to move forward. Sometimes I think who am I to complain when I am not truly the victim here. I don't want to be a bad person, but it seems all I'll ever amount to are the terrible things I've done.
 I go over these memories over and over again in my head trying to make sense of it. I've thought of suicide and turning myself in. It all seems so out of character for me. I don't delight in harming others. Sometimes it's like it never happened at all, like another life or a dream. Every not so kind thing I've done gives me reason to believe that I am horrid. 
 If there's anyone out there with similar experiences, how did you move forward?  
 I'm struggling to pick up the pieces.