Hello Doctor
 Iam 33 and I had my first child at 22. I was young and barely ready emotionally but that's not my issue here.
I am an Indian and I lived for about a year with my in laws and they made my life a living hell... In this day and age?!
Yes, and they had pretty manipulative control over my husband too.I had a stressful pregnancy and cried a lot, was upset and sad.
It had it's good moments as well, my only consolation is that I did a lot of Reimi in my last trimester. 
But my problem is I keep reliving it over and over again in my mind.I focus on it whenever I am upset or when my son is a little hyper or moody or bed wets ...it's like I link everything to that moment.
I myself have become more anxious and jittery as a person because of all those negative experiences- I never was like that before and wonder was it because it changed me as a person or was I always subconsciously like this and it's manifesting now?
I feel like I'm always putting my son under a microscope and dissecting everything he foes just so I can feel he's fine,okay and not anxious like me. And the funniest part is-the more I do that the more I feel I'm putting pressure on him.
He is a smart boy, academically doing well, polite and sociabl. However he's been bed wetting and is a little on the jumpity side. Sometimes he gets acidity issues( which I've suffered from a lot) and I'm so scared for him all the time. It's like I have a feeling of dread all the time....I can't explain it,no one understand..a psychologist is too expensive an option for me. 
I've tried yoga, meditation , exercise and while all these help they still can't cure me of this pathetic heavy feelingi feel I would feel so light and unburdened if I could know he's fine and my stress during pregnancy didn't affect him.
I have such a big phobia of mental illnesses as I've seen a cousin go through hell and it freaks me out..and I'm angry because I can't stop these  thoughts!!
I want to be a good, happy mother to my kids  but now I feel I'm pretending to be one. My husband is very supportive but tired by my problems.
I have sacrificed a lot.. My studies although I'm doing my post grad now,career everything for raising my kids but if I can't do that job right what's the point?!!
I freaked out the other day reading about a book called 'the Secret' that talks about wishing things by thinking about them and self fulfilling prophecies... But I don't want to think negative all the time and have them happen because I thought of them!!
Can you please allay some fears on whether my pregnancy would have affected him. I love my kids and there is a lot of love, care in our family..is that enough for them to be emotionally  stable And well adjusted?
Thank you for your time.
I'm not a big fan of medication as I've heard a lot about the side effects.