Hi, I was wondering if anyone else had similar experiences- somehow that would make it less painful, I guess... I have been chronically ill with a variety of health problems including autoimmune, disgestive disorders, and endometriosis- I have constant problems, and I take a TON od meds, all of which have side effects of course.  My partner and I got together about 6 months before these health problems emerged, but of course, when they hit- they all came at once, and it's been a roller coaster of pain, illness, testing, medication adjustment, correct and incorrect diagnoses- all of which led to my losing my job and having to quit school. 
 My partner always seemed very supportive, but then suddenly, and out-of the blue, after nearly 3 years- after planning to get married (and making health insurance decisions based on this plan), becoming part of my family, constantly reassuring me that he would stay with me, he said he's out- can't deal with it anymore.  He said I could handle it if ended up in a wheel chair, but not my depression, anxiety, and mood swings.  i convinced him to keep trying for a little longer, but I feel like the writing's already on the wall...
 Now I recently have a new diagnosis, celiac disease- and it's kind of exciting because I might get a lot better in many areas of my body.  And knowing that I haven't been getting nutrients from food for some time, means that I should experience a big boost in my overall health when i go gluten-free and start absorbing nutrients again.
 So now, he said he couldn't be with me before- but now he thinks that since I might improve so much, that it might work out.  I don't think I can handle the pressure of being with someone who will only stay if I get well- my health track record sucks, I might get well *enough* but what if I don't?  
 And sick and non-functional as I am, I don't feel great about entering the dating pool again- I'm not much of a 'catch' anymore.  So, I don't know...certainly he isn't someone I should marry- he's proven he can't handle that 'in sickness and in health' stuff.  But I don't want to be alone... I HATE being sick.