I am a 29 yr old female and I have major issues with my mother. I grew up in a strict household to where I've felt that I couldn't do anything most of the time. It wasn't always bad times in my parents home but it wasn't always good times either. My mother and I had ....key word "had" a really good mother/daughter relationship until a few years back when my father decided to have his mother come live with us. My mother won't admit it nor acknowledge that her attitude towards a lot of things have changed since my grandmother starting living with us. My major issue with my mother has always been with me dating. She always made me feel like every man I dated wasn't good enough or "saved" enough for her. So I'd always cut my relationships short just to keep peace. Well now I'm in a relationship with this man that I really care for and have stuck with for almost 2 years now. My mother hates him. Everytime his name comes up she has an attitude and hostility towards him. My boyfriend never done anything to disrespect my parents. Although they both feel like he doesn't support me (because he doesn't attend church with me) and that he's not the one that God has for me. I don't understand all of this hatred and hostility that my mother has towards him. When I try to ask her why she felt the way that she did... I get this whole bit on how he's lying to me and how he's going to knock me up and leave me like she so claimed he did in his previous relationship. And everytime I try to stand up for him and let her know that he's not a bad person...I being told that I'm justifying for him and I'm being blinded by the devil (oh yeah my parents are in the church heavily) I've even been told that I am allowing my boyfriend to come between my family and I which I don't see how if I try not to speak about him around her. I don't understand how is it that my mother can call me out  and tell me what she think I am but when I called her out and told her how can she love the Lord and be a woman of God when you have so much anger and bitterness in your heart towards one person??? Was I wrong for telling my mother about herself?? 
 I thought by trying to resolve our differences would help me to bring peace within my soul but I'm beginning to see that all it has ever done is cause more pain and anguist. I felt that I was doing the right thing by speaking to my mother about how I felt and how I've been feeling. But all I've gotten was a black eye, a busted lip and a don't ever come to my house ever again and don't you ever bring that little boy to my house!! I'm at my wits end and I don't know what else to do as I'll be 30 soon and I don't want to deal with these issues in my 30's.