I am 48 years old and am in the perimenopause.  My periods are pretty regular except when I am under more stress than normal.  I usually have headaches on the first days of my period and breast tenderness from midcycle until I get my period but the breast tenderness didn't happen every month except for recently.  Emotionally I'm pretty stable except I notice I am more sensitive a few days before my period arrives.  New symptoms which I never had before were brain fog for a few days during my period, insomnia, more sweating and itchiness (an itching that comes from inside, out).  Half an anti-histamine tablet will keep me okay for a day or two but then the itching returns.  It is not due to dry skin or a food allergy though I have some food intolerances (but I avoid those foods).  I do have an allergic profile and suffered a lot from Hay Fever when I lived in the US but not in Europe, where I live now.  I have no hot flashes or vaginal dryness. 
 I have osteoporosis/osteopeneia (it is a genetic problem) and recently I did a bone density scan and my bone density had decreased (the last I did was 4 years ago and it had been stable since the first I had done 8 years ago).  So this was a negative change. 
 Eight months ago I gave up sugar and refined foods totally.  I eat mostly organic and have a varied diet.  I exercise regularly.  I don't take any medication except for anti-histamines at the moment.
 I began using first a natural product called Progesto-Mend (from Douglas Labs) and later natural Progesterone cream (for only one cycle so far) because from the symptoms I was having  I figured I was Estrogen dominant.  No headaches this month, the brain fog is almost not noticeable though I do have small memory or attention lapses, I seem to be sleeping better but the itchiness remains VERY MUCH!  I read that this was due to low cortisol levels because cortisol is made from Progesterone so if your Progesterone levels are low, your cortisol levels will be low and cortisol has an anti-inflammatory affect on the body.  Also Estrogen dominance promotes the release of histamine and so the symptoms of allergies.  This is what I read.
 I started on 20mg of natural  progesterone cream twice a day (3 weeks on, 1 week off (during my menses) because I am thin and I read in one of Dr John Lee's books that in this case the body needs a greater dose for 3 or 4 months to get the progesterone levels up to satisfactory levels.  As I am doing this on my own because I live in Portugal and cannot find a gynecologist who has experience with BHRT, I am wondering if I am using enough cream.  I'm afraid of overdosing as I've read it can create other problems because Progesterone can build up in the fat cells of the body and these problems can be difficult to resolve.  Or one can develop Candida.  But the itching is definitely a symptom that cries out to be treated.  Should I increase the amount of cream or will this just take time?  The cream I am using is from Kokoro and is one of the creams suggested in Dr Lee's book.  
 Is there anything else I can do for the itching besides taking anti-histamines?  I know this is not a cure.
 Thank you!