Hello I am a 31 year old female with three children. My last child I gave birth to was about two years ago. I have had hormone testing and a pelvic ultrasound, and all tests were normal. The delivery of my last child was a rough one, which resulted in a ruptured uterus, my first c-section and an emergency hysterectomy. After that I went through two more surgeries. The first one was a month after, and the second six months after.  I have had some major issues with muscular pain, especially in my lower back, extreme fatigue, cold chills, and hot flashes. I have also recently discovered that I have ptosis kidney, and in 2012 was told that I had a horse shoe kidney. My normal temperature went from around 96.9 to 97.5 to now at 98.6 to 99.3 and it has been that way for three months now. I have had my thyroid checked, I have had hepatitis testing, and HIV, all were negative. I noticed about three months ago that I had a swollen lymph node. At first I decided to ignore it because I was getting colds a lot ever since the delivery. For a year and a half it felt as if every time I left the house I would catch a cold. Now it has been three months and I have not had any colds, nor do I feel like I am sick other than the occasional low grade fever, body pains, and fatigue. The lymph node started off as a tiny dot and now has grown bigger in size, to about the size of the tip of my finger. I also noticed I have some tiny red bumps that have shown up on the undersides of my upper arms.They do not hurt or itch.  I have not had the greatest experiences going to the doctor. The last time I went to a regular primary care doctor, aside from the OBGYN who has ran these recent test, was in 2012. At that time I had spent two years trying to figure out why I was sick all of the time and having pain below my sternum. Finally in 2012 they found out I had a hiatal hernia and an extreme case of acid reflux. I received a nissen fundoplication surgery in 2012 and that was the last time I saw a primary care doctor. I also recently found out that my grandmother was diagnosed with high grade serous carcinoma in the ovaries, we are waiting on genetic testing to come back for that. My ovaries looked good in my ultrasound. I only had a few tiny cysts on the vaginal cuff.  My great-grandfather on her side of the family had lymphoma, and my great-aunt, his daughter had lung cancer. All of the woman on that side had full hysterectomy early. After watching multiple people in my family suffer with cancer, I just want to make sure I do not wait to long if it is something but at the same time I do not have a lot of money to keep going through all of these tests. I was wondering if this is something that I should get checked or if I am worrying for no reason? I would be so grateful to anyone who can help me figure out what to do. Thank you.