hi! it's not really that schizophrenic as you call it, but i just have this weird feeling in me, like inside me. whenever i'm alone and i'm doing something like anything, writing, reading or drawing and all stuff, i really don't know but i always get a little bit paranoid for no reason at all that like something or someone is calling me from outside my room. like my mom or someone i know but i really know that they're not calling me but these weird delusions or whatever you call it won't really stop. they're just like very very faint voices that's always calling my name, like getting my attention or something for me to stop what i'm doing. and like i don't really stay at ease until i go out and check it myself on whoever is calling me, if there was only to find out that there's really no one calling me even though i knew it, i still go out just to get rid of the faint voices. this has happened a lot of times now. i just sort of try to manage it and sometimes i ignore it.
 another thing too is that i really don't know what's wrong, i mean it's just weird coz like normally, on a normal basis, like when i watch people doing their daily activities including my family and to other people, i always have this weird thinking and thoughts of something really really dreadful is about to happen to that person for example. i see someone running in the hallway and immediately there's this faint voice again or a horrid thought that i would imagine that person to slip and hit his/her head really hard and the worse part of these weird thoughts is that i sort of feel what they're supposed to feel like hitting their heads hard on the floor and then i just touch and protect my head coz i don't want to feel the pain of what that might feel like. it's just weird. the thought always comes suddenly and when the thought or scene is playing in my head, i always tell myself to stop, stop thinking it, but it won't. it's like it has it's got it's own mind on it own. this happened like a lot of times now. there just like innate things.. i really don't know..are these any symptoms of some kind? 
 -i'd appreciate it if you'll answer. thanx! -violette