I've been battling something for a very long time now (You can see my older posts), i am 20 years old and i was just recently diagnosed with generalized anxeity disorder and OCD. This summer was very hard for me, dealing with loss of a very important elder in my family, families homelessness, and me myself not having a home sometimes, i attempted suicide, not for the first time... but for the first time that someone was actually able to notice... I was sent to the hospital, and woke up 2.5 days later. I didnt understand what was going on, i remember waking up a few times while in my coma, but as soon as i woke up and realized i was still in the same life i was looking to end, i cried for an hour, my entire family was there... i went into the bathroom to cry alone, i was so disappointed with myself, not because i was guilty about what i apparently put them through, but for the sole fact that i did not want to wake up, i felt like i tried to save myself, and i couldn't even do that.
 The next 3 weeks after my suicide i spent in the hospital, and in an inpatient temp bed. so basically i was in a temporary mental hospital, i was seeing a doctor for the first time in my life to talk about what i was going through. I felt safe there, although i still had my suicidal thoughts and night terrors i could talk to the doctors and nurses there about what i was going through and they also noticed the days i would have being there, if i was having a good day, or an off day. When i got out, i had no money to my name, i was in debt, with no hours at work, no place to permanently live and i had to plan how i would get off my feet, how i would be able to go back to school, work and still pay to have a roof over my head. I did it all alone, i had some help, but everything i did was for me.. the rest people did because they knew what i was going through and they wanted to help me, and they did that. 
  Its been a few months since i moved into my place and started school, new jobs, new medication and new life. Everything was seemingly fine at first, i was just happy to see things working out. Being able to feed myself and to take care of myself, and sleep in a bed i knew was mine, and that i could stay in all day if i wanted to without anyone having something to say. I never left, even when i had night terrors, and i usually did. Lucid dreams, feeling trapped inside a night mare and even sleep paralysis a few times. I got more paranoid, anxious and hated the thought of the future. I stopped going to school, i started missing work, i never left my bed unless it was to go see people i wanted to see or it was to go out drinking and dancing. I spend more time thinking about suicide now than when i started school. I went up in my dose for medication and i am not sure what to really look for as far as side effects, but i noticed if i even missed one day, my condition will worsen.
 3 weeks ago i got up to go to the bathroom, and the last thing i remember was closing the bathroom door before i woke up, how ever long i was on the floor for in my own blood. I fainted and my teeth went through my bottom lip, chipped tooth. I am not sure what time i arrived at the bathroom but i woke up at 7 in the morning, got up and didn't notice what really happen so i cleaned the blood up, put a towel on my mouth and went to sleep until 6:30 the next day. 
 My mood is generally always dark, i enjoy thinking about death and suicide alot. sometimes it scares me, because its ALWAYS on my mind, but sometimes its comforting to know that i will die some day. Lately i've been looking forward to death, and i don't want to commit suicide anytime in my life, but it will happen once i find a way so that i know i won't have to wake up and have the people who love me look at me and i am exposed again. Waking up from an attempt and people knowing and seeing what youre doing/going thu, is possibly the worst exposed ive ever felt in my 20 years besides when people notice my huge scar on my forearm, i am a firm believer of crossing the bridge., but it didn't work out for me, unfortunately. 
 Recently i've been hanging out with new people and they've been helping me think less of suicide and death. They are very optimistic and they attend my university as well, so we can relate on the same problems. We were having a really good night went on a walk, we crossed a bridge i've never seen before and its just down the street from my house. When i was on the bridge, i could see my death. The bridge was high, and had a pretty decent ground for my bones to break beneath me. I felt very comfortable with the fact that if i ever contemplate suicide again, soon i have a place to jump.
 Now, i could end my ask for help there, but its not that i want to live, its that i want to get the fantasies of death out of my mind, constant replay of me, and other people dying so i can want to live. My medications are not working anymore and since my fainting few weeks ago, i haven't been on my medications.  
 I need advice, i don't trust my doctors anymore.. they ask me to promise them i wont kill myself, but that makes me feel even more uncomfortable because i can't promise that promise to the people who love and care about me. When ever i have a really bad day i call suicide/crisis line, they help sometimes.. they usually just make me realize i should be sleeping instead of being up thinking about weird ****.
 I've been dealing with this for a very long, long time in my life.. Since i was about 11 and didnt really understand. I'm getting stronger... with the more i live, but i just need some motivation to live and get stronger. suicide is a very active member in my life, in my mind. 
I want to be able to wake up everyday and be happy i was lucky enough to wake up that day.