I'm not a step parent but I have 2 step parents. I love my step mom. She and her family treat me like family. I have a very good bond with my step mom, grandpa, aunt, and brother. But at Mom's which is where I am most of the time is where my step father (Scott) and his son (Sean) live. My step father doesn't acknowledge my existence. We have literally spent the whole day in the same house and not said one word to each other. His son lies, victimizes himself, and has no social skills at all because all he does is play video games. Scott will take Sean out to eat or buy him stuff and then lie to Mom about it. He claims that Sean pays for the stuff he gets him to Mom but I've actually heard him go in and say "hey buddy, I got you a present". He bought mom a kindle, and sean over $100 in video games and gave it to them in front of me an my brother. He always believes Sean's lies and doesn't make him do anything for his allowance even though bub and I have to do chores for ours. He tells me that I'm a terrible child and that "he would knock me on my a** if i were his". I know better than that because he has 4 kids 3 of which are grown and 2 have illigament kids his daughter is into drugs and has had both her kids taken away an that stuff doesn't happen because of good parenting. We have a no tolerance for cussing at my house but mom says nothing when I call them mean names. Since I can't get at my step father as easily as Sean bub and I tend to pick on him a lot. Most of the time it's because he does something stupid. Like today when he couldn't figure out how to open the front door even though he is in 7th grade. I have no plans on trying to build a relationship with either one of them. I want to know if this is normal for combined families. I would also like to know if there are any step parents out there that would do the things Scott does to their step kids. And just in case you wanted to know I am very appreciative for how my mom raised me. I'm glad I have to work for my allowance and that video games and tv weren't allowed in excess when i was little.