Hello
 So me and my ex girlfriend we dated for 2,5 years, last couple of months of the relationship i wasnt giving her enought atention due to work but i still loved her!!!!
BTW im 27 years old and she is 20.
So she broke up with me ( 3 months ago), and immediately started seing this kid ( he is 19), and a month later started dating him!!!
As you imagine i was devasted, cryed, beged, talked to all her friends etc....
But i managed to go cold turky on her this past 1,5 months, well her realtionship looked great ( acording to her posts on facebook), but i got a text from her asking me for a coffe, and i was like da **** she wants o.O? went to her facebook just to notice that on this day that she asked me out she deleted her relationship status that she was dating this kid,( btw i wtill lover her like crazy!!!!), So i send her a text just saying: we can schedule a coffe!!
She repplied with just a smile and that was it!!!
2 days later she is dating the kid again, honeymoon stage all over again!!! as you can imagine i was devasted ( got my hope high).
But something else happened, she sent me a facebook invitation to a party, and just to troll her i acpeted ( i wasnt planing to go), on the night of the party she went with a really good friend of mine thats also a friend of hers, and this friend of mine told me that she talked about me all the time, that she was so ansious to see me and that she wanted to dance with other guys whem i show up just to make me jealous, and also she was sad that her boyfriend wanst there because i would be even more jealous.
She said to my friend that she just wanted to see me just to see if im doing fine but at the same time she tells her that she wants to me make me jealous, and acording to my firend she was refreshing my facebook during all night just to see if i canceled my invitation!!
Its 5 in the morning and see text me saying that she hoped to to see me in the party, and we will see each other another time!
  Acording to my friend she is confused, cause she still has some feelling towards me!!
 But whats the points of making me jelous? She dumped me, she has a boyfriend ( acording to her facebook posts she loves him) and i was dumped, i was devasted and im still single lol, so theres no reasons for her to behave like that!!!
  What do you guys think?? Btw today she posted another romantic post about her boyfriend , 2 days after this party
Last edited by sadpanda; November 16th, 2014 at 11:22 PM..