ok so short version of this story. met this girl we fell for each other but she had a bf well she left him after being with him for a year then came to me and shes not that type of girl to do things like that she is very conservative never done that in her life.  so we date for 4 months best of my life and shes so happy in love saying she wants to be with me forever im the perfect guy. then she sees her ex at a party i didnt go to and she had to have him carry her to a car cuz she was too drunk to walk  and she started having feelings for him again. and she felt bad for cheating on him before she kissed two guys at the begining of their relationship and now feels like she owes him. so we try it then we take a break during that break she goes and sleeps with him a couple times. and i knew she would cuz she said she wanted to know if he has changed so she is going back and forth between me and him for a month sleeping with him and still coming over and staying the night with me.i forgave her for all of that and she said she knew she would be with me she just needed to settle what she had with him. and she tells me the truth buy cannot tell him the truth because he will get mad if he knew we were hanging out that whole time. well she ends up getting prego. till a appointment we didnt know whos it was but thought it was more likely mine. i was willing to forgive her cuz she did want to be with me and not him anymore then she was saying things like i want it to be yours and i love you so much.telling me im perfect and she would be dumb to leave me. But she didnt want to cut the dad out of the picture if it was him either and i kept talking about the situation so much like i wanted to know what to do and she didnt know and  it stressed her out and she was worried about the baby so for a month i did that i tried not to .i get really depressed cuz we stop talking and am really down and talked about if it was his idk what i would do and if i would even make a good dad since i have tried to kill myself once a long time ago and so shes mad at me and within a week goes the other right every time i try to talk she gets mad at me says mean things it got to the point she told me she wasnt in love with me anymore then shes trying again with her and then she didnt want i to be my kid and that was all within two weeks when before that it was all about me. So go to appointment thinking no way it could be his . its his. And now im left here dealing with a break up. i love this girl very much and it was more then just a relationship to me and now shes going to have a kid i thought was mine so if i ever see them ill think that could of been my family. and i have a problem i just sit there and look at pics of her the pain of this is way to hard for me to handle i cant everywhere i go i see her and a memory of us like just going to walmart even getting in my car and i interact with that memory which is weird  and now im even making up my own like a new place i go to i picture her walking out from around the corner to come by me. or if im in a hotel like coming from the shower to get in bed. im really finding it hard to keep on going like this and ive dealt with a bad break up before and almost offed myself cuz the pain was to hard and i was still feeling it two years later but this is a million times worse i loved her a whole lot more and the whole kid thing to is hard and i dont think i can make it. I still love her and want to be with her but at this point she really dont want much to do with me. And what happens if that 1% chance of the kid being mine is true and after 9 months i get dragged back in. even though she told me she dont want me to come back into the pic even if it is mine. i dont know if she is just frustrated and stressed. she says she dont hate me but basically there is no need for us to talk anymore all her family now knows its his and not mine. i just dont understand any of this and im losing my mind bad. i cant do anything with out feeling like im going to jump out of my skin and im really afraid im going to try something in one of those surges of all those feelings coming on to me at once. i do know time heals all things but i dont have a magic wand to make time go faster so for now im stuck in this pain. and i still do want to be with her if they didnt work out even if it wasnt my kid. and im afaid to get involved again because if i let someone in and i feel again and it goes south i wont make it through that. i give not just my love in relationships i give everything i am.