I see symptoms that either borderline or bipolar to my H. or is it depression? This I recall before he will just check in the hotel without informing anybody for no reason. Can not be confronted even in the most calmest way I tried. Just say we were worried why at least call he outburst into anger and walk out. This has came worse and now continous. its like he is just a visitor in the house. He spend his time drinking and smoking pots. We found out now that he is enabled with these vices from a ***** (mamasan).He is irritable,moody,likes to buy anything of non importance,no definite plan , easily change his mind for seconds.,easily gets angry,but if he ask for something he wants it to be done on time which is opposite for him.He will say he will do something but it will just be left there upside down for years. He demolish our house and plan to renovate but demolition is done and renovation is hang around. In short no job done. This has came worse when his father died and he started again on disappearing unitl he found this *****. My guess is he use this ***** to meethis vices. He is joblessand dont have motivation to work. Before He was working it will not take a year on one job and he will just stop for no reason. He was totally dependent on his father.
He has something good in his heart.He got inheritance from his father and he entrust that to me.This house we live now was given by my father in law. I suggest one time that w ego see a doc and we liveoutside this country to start fresh. He just nod his head. When he is at home he is just sitting and i full talk to him ,either he will react angrily or its like ur talking to a stone without any response. How can I persuade this man to go for a treatment.You see sometimes you will hear that he is just around the neighorhood but he dont care to come home. I really dont know if the issue is he is in love,or he is depressed or effect of alcohol and pot.My kids are so cold with him now and they wish he dont come back.Deep inside I want to help him. I am not from this country and see what makes me confuse is why he invested some of his inheritance in my country? He have plan to go back there and just live there but dont know what will happen.Dont know if this topic belongs here but pls.give some advice. Am I correct that he has mood disorder?