Well i m at australia now. when i was in nepal i have nothing. No bipolar nothing. It's something too odd. It itself sound psyco and nonsene but its what i faced, i met lady named on chat room. Gradually started to get crazy and crazy, without watching pictures. I used to hate poerty from childhood. I started to write poetry only. Exam is near i just write poems only. Then became more crazy more crazy without any picture just first time or 2 or 3 times chat or email happned things. Then gradually started to beat mother. later i exam failed , all damage, then i got picture. pic was sent by chatter and i showed that picture to mother, she smile and started to say nothing all fine , keep patience u will get, but brother mistakenly or no idea he told that could be boy this that, but i didnot trusted and went too mad and crazy, then vigin style thinking, i started to say i have never done handsake with any girls , what about u . i like pure girl . How a person go so much mad? SO much crazy just by remote chat. Nonsense. Then i meet one person on website called drboylan, www.drboylan.com. in website its written he is scientist, flying sacur, start visitors, allien , its all about that , then i contacted him, and amazingly even scientist reply me email. That od. Usually big ppl never replies, then another was i meet penny, who started to send airmails, gifts this that . it was before come to australia during 5 years period. Then after i came to australia i suffered too much. i became crazy, ppl used to say this that, some used to say star on college all nonsense nonsese, idiot, than one day when i was at kogarah and self speaking laxmi sapkota word the dangerous lightening hit over my head. By the way i dont used to bath. and self speak only and self speaking started after coming in australia. After 100 thousand current volt hit over my head i felt almost fait or weak then wake up any how and got power and started to break the small trees, then police came and take to hospital, inside it's hell. 100 thousand times death happens, then now mental have to take seroquel. Why nonsese ppl make human crazy using long range? and who let them use this toys to them? Naturally human never go crazy without lady pictures and what is this virgin thinging, pure pure mind concept. Because of an extra or extra ordinary input in my head i started to write such extraordinay poems near the exam and exam is zero. fail many times. Why ppl use nonsense things without permission and make human mad. The 100 thousand volts when hits the head the volcano maker obviously mental happens. Why ppl use this like  video game? now what i consider myself mental or and why seroquel given, will it have any cure or not.