My step daughters accused their dad of abuse 10
Years ago when they were about 14 and 18 he was found not guilty incourt and I truly felt at te they were lying to get council housing.  There mother committed suicide he remarried and I feel the eldest of his four girls is very screwed up and caused a lot of problems wrecking his second marriage.  Sorry long post.  I had not got along with the second oldest and the youngest when they claimed this 10 years ago and felt it was a het back at me' too my 2 small children had to be checked by social services.  The daughter I did get along with didn't give evidence but none of them have ever made contact again with there dad.  My husband is Nigerian and recently his nephews wife asked me' what had I done to reconcile the situation.  I lied and said I had written to them once and nobreply.  Truth is the separation suits me'.  My daughter is still in contact and would be there way back to dad. My problem is now with hindsight I'm not sure about his innocence - he made friends with a Taiwanese girl 20 years younger She was very small and looked like his daughter.  He also appears to have been going to massage parlours and I recall now that our bedroom was locked and he was in the room with one of his daughters when I came home unexpectedly he said they were talking.  To this day she maintains he sexually abused her.  She was always very quiet put a lock on her bedroom door herself and  he has displeased me' over the years to the point of buying another property by remortgaging our house and asked me' to give him power if attorney to look after our house in Spain.  Which I refused and threatened divorce.  I don't know if he's humouring me' now by being so nice to me' as he was so cold when with the Taiwanese girl.  A close family friend said they saw him holding hands with a black younger female last year.  So this dark side appears in him yet he is back to being the loving husband I thought he was I'm past.  Ps he's impotent now has blood pressure meds.  What should I do, my in law will contact them, should I contact them too, write a letter.  If I thought at the te any doubt that he abused them I would have left h.  Years on I don't know now but we are financially tied and close to retirement.  I don't think he will cheat again cause of impotence.  Confused and messed up and suggestions please - I am afraid of being on my own and in spite of all the anxiety love him.