I am a 28 year old female, have been living with my boyfriend for the past 2 years (3 years together), no kids. I have always been on the shy and introverted side and have seen various therapists who have diagnosed me with anxiety and social anxiety. I am wondering now if I may be depressed as well. Last September (2014) I quit my full time, good paying job that I held for over 2 years because the stress was really getting to me and I felt anxious all the time at work. I took about a month off and saw a therapist, exercised, caught up with friends and family, etc... I then started a part time job and was able to be there every day and be social and relatively happy. I started feeling anxious again March of this year and at that pointed I started leaving my house less and less after work, even when I had appointments and things to do with friends I would ALWAYS cancel to stay home. Even going to the grocery store felt like a chore. This July, I lost my part time job due to downsizing within the company. I am on unemployment now and going to school for my Master's online. I barely ever leave the house now that I don't have to go to work. I wake up at 8:30 with my boyfriend when he leaves for work (we live together), and then I will make my coffee and breakfast and just do my school work for hours on the computer and watch TV, listen to music, read, etc... I stay inside for days at a time, unless my boyfriend wants to go out to dinner or on the weekend I will go somewhere with him like the beach or movies. I used to go to the gym every other day but have stopped doing that because I can't get myself to leave the house. I used to eat pretty healthy foods but lately have not been caring and have been ordering pizza and eating junk. When friends make plans with me I agree but then cancel at the last minute. I am almost perfectly content staying inside even when the weather is nice and being on the computer, watching TV, laying in bed with a book and some tea, etc... But this can't be healthy. I am not sad, most of the time. But I have noticed I do have mood swings where one day I will feel very low and like I just can't leave the house and be around people, and the next morning I will wake up feeling happy and like I am ready to get out there and interact. However, most of the time I don't like going out and interacting with people or being around them. Which is weird because the times I do leave the house to do stuff, it is usually a positive experience and nothing bad happens. My doctor has prescribed me Xanax to help with my anxiety, and it helps a bit but I don't want to depend on it. I finally brought myself to set up an appointment with another therapist, it is next week. I am just wondering if anyone else has experienced this feeling of not wanting to leave the house and how you have dealt with it? Any advice would be very much appreciated! I should also mention that I have an interview for a new job this week, and I am not sure if I even want it but also feel as though it might be good for me to have a job so I am required to leave the house and be somewhere again.