I have always suffered from depression, and depression and PTSD make for very
strange life partners and come packaged together in my case.
 Today is the Year anniversary of my brothers death, and I could tell that I was
sinking...Not only is it a sad anniversary, but I have SAD, Seasonal Affective
Disorder, that raises its head usually as early as October and reaches a peak
in Dec, Jan and Feb.  
 I bought myself a SAD light through Amazon and started sitting in front of it for
30 minutes every day since October 1.  I will continue with the sitting until about 
March and then see how it feels to go without the lights.  When I first started looking
at the lights 10 years ago, the price was out of my reach, now they are cheaper,
about a hundred dollars and I feel it has already paid me back in increased energy,
no more daytime sleeping, and an increased interest in hobbies, reading and 
my appearance....
 The light does not cure depression.  It seems to lift it to a level I can carry around with
me...I also do meditation and have a huge library of motivational books and Audio
resources that lift the fog of depression even more.
 But as my brothers anniversary got closer and closer, it was like I had never
done the lights, never done meditation or motivational work.  I was sinking
and it is a feeling like darkness settling over my heart.  
 I stood at my kitchen window and asked myself if my sadness, my grief,
my pain could in fact bring my brother back to his family.  And if the answer
is No, then what else could I do to mark his life instead of with dark
thoughts.  I stood there and Gave Thanks for the life we had that I was
very lucky to have experienced...I gave Thanks for the opportunity to
know Love and to have wonderful memories of our childhood that can
soothe me for a long time....And the sinking of the depression that weighed so
heavy on me started raising.
 I was wondering if anyone has ever used the SAD lights and if they had a 
Positive Experience in the treatment of Depression...
 Thank you
 M