Hi,
I'll try to keep this as brief as possible...
I was seeing a girl for a month, we had known each other longer through work. She had a boyfriend who was calling her 50 times when she didn't answer her phone and I told her I was interested in pursuing something if they broke up, and once they did we got together. (I mention the ex's behaviour because it's possible she played a part in him becoming that way).
Anyway, she was at a week long uni function that involved a lot of drinking. On the 2nd night she called whilst drunk, being quite sexual (in public) on the phone. i said I had to go to which she responded 'one more minute or I'll kill myself'. I ended up hanging up after a few more minutes and messaged to say sorry but I had to get up early for work. She responded with 'I hate you, thanks for freeing me up.' Which I interperate as she can now be with other guys.
She apologised the next day but when I reminded her of what was said she avoided discussing it.
Over the following week she became increasingly distant. I asked if things were ok and she said yeah but became even more distant. It made me anxious so I tried to end the relationship only for her to turn it around and say she didn't have time for it because she had to concentrate on uni and when she meets a guy she likes she goes crazy and it will ruin things.
Over the next month I tried to rekindle the relationship. She would be interested one minute and then completely cold the next, contradicting herself from day to day. 
Our last meeting was arranged by her only for her to say afterwards that it didn't go well and that she didn't want to be with me, then saying she thought we could give it a chance, then back flipping to not wanting to be with me the next day.
Things seem to have come to an end now. Stupidly, my last words to her were 'I think you have a personality disorder'.
Throughout the relationship and post relationship, she seemed devoid of empathy for my feelings at times. 
Does this sound like BP, or just a case of a messy breakup? I know I played my part but her constant indecision, hot and cold behaviour, and the vain suicide threat have left me questioning her behaviour. Any insight would help. Thanks!