Okay! So- I am 17, female and my boyfriend and I started engaging in sexual activities about 3-4 months ago. We have been together for a little more than 9 months. I have been off and on birth control (ortho-cyclen generic brand) but for the month of November I have taken them, and didn't miss a pill (however didn't take all of them at the SAME TIME every day) I only missed the last four dark green pills (they contain no hormone so I don't think it matters.) Anywho.. here is what happened;
 On around November the 3rd (or 4th) I got my normal period.. two days after, my bf and I got together. He fingered me first, I pulled my panties up, and with panties on only, I sat on top of him and gave him a h-job. When he began to ejaculate I jumped off, completely positive not getting any sperm on me (except for my hands) We both quickly wiped our hands on a pair of shorts.. kissed for a bit, then I went home. That night, (ABOUT 15-25 minutes later) I was still extremely wet. Without thinking, I touched the inside of my vagina with that same hand just a bit to feel how wet I was to see if I had to clean up. My heart dropped and I washed my hands with soap and water. A few days later- I DID THE SAME DAMN THING. Ugh.. anyways throughout that week, we fooled around but I was EXTRA cautious of everything I did. We dry humped, and I engaged in oral sex for him (swallowed).. 
 ANYWHO.. It is now 2 - 2 &1/2 weeks from that little incident, and I have about a week and four days until my period is suppose to come. (That's what my pills say) Well, my breasts were and still get really sore.. I also felt naseous a few times (whether it's my nerves or what idk) and I had this liquids, water-like and white discharge.. With worrying myself sick, I told my guardians and they both think I'm crazy for thinking I'm pregnant and even say that they think I did something more to be so worried about it. They bought me 2 first response pregnancy tests, and with about 9-12 days until my expected period, I took one and it came up negative with in 3 minutes.. today, I got my wisdom teeth out and the put me under with anesthesia.. I was wondering, could that delay my period? Also, I got more discharge today, but this time it was white, with the consistency of elmers glue beginning to dry and clump. It was still liquidy but contained a few clumps.
 I also read online that you could have your period and still be pregnant! How the heck would you know if you were? Should I wait to take the second test a day after I get or don't get my period (when I'm expected?) Is there even anything to worry about? Does this sound like pregnancy. 
 I really hope someone can help. Thank you all so much. Try to answer in much detail (for my conscious sake) THANK YOU AGAIN. I'm so stressed out.