Hi. I am mainly just on here for support right now. I have a son who will be 3 in March. I am engaged for his father. We had been trying to a few months to get pregnant. May 2009 we found out we were expecting. I found out I had a UTI & the meds they were giving me where a high dosage or I couldn't take them. I was starting to cramp & bleed a few weeks later so I went to the ER. I was told that the baby had stopped forming & that I had miscarried but the baby was still there. I decided that I wanted to have a D&C. after about a week or 2 after the procedure my fiance & I tried again. In the beginning of September we found out we were expecting again. I was having quite a bit of spotting & some bleeding but not much. I went to the ER & was told that I measured about 6 weeks & that there was a sac but no baby. I made an appointment with my OBGYN. My levels were tested & then a couple of days later they were tested again. The day after the last blood test which was last Wednesday I went to the doc & they did an ultrasound. The doc told me that my levels had dropped from 3000 to 1900 in just 3 or 4 days. Also no baby had started to form & I was almost 8 weeks then. I had a D&C last Thursday. I was told that they are going to do lab work on my follow up appt to find out if there is a reason I miscarried twice in a row. I have an appt next week & then again 2 weeks after that. I'm just kind of curious of a few things & also wanting some support that I know I can get here. I haven't really been able to talk to anyone about the miscarriage besides my fiance. I don't feel like doing much of anything lately. I am curious as to if there is something wrong where maybe I can't have more kids...but I have a son who is almost 3....I'm curious as to if I would've waited a little longer if things would progressed but I know by almost 8 weeks you should see a baby. I am having drama with my family & my now ex best friend just betrayed me so I'm kinda just looking for someone I can talk to. I have had trouble with anxiety for a few years now. Here lately I've got to where I kind of space out like I forget where I am or what I'm doing. Also I'll get a little lightheaded. I know my body is still a bit weak after my surgery a couple of weeks ago. I really just want some support because I don't really talk to many people & I found medhelp after my first miscarriage in June & I have gotten so much support from people on here.