I am at lost. If one knew my husband they would be shock to find out what happened. He underwent a joint operation and was prescribed hydrocodone for the pain. My husband does not drink or do drugs but was taking statin medication at the time. Point is, he was also under extreme pressure at work. Which mean missing work for a week was not ideal. Still he had the surgery done and upon returning to work, suffered was is called a dissociation. He had an affair without knowing he was cheating. I am taking about an intelligent man, that would of never done this. In fact, this realization has induced a depression. I refuse that he takes medication because I feel he already has memory problems. I need to know if a person can indeed have a dissociation or was he victim of this person taken advantage of him while under influence. Please note that no intercourse happen since he could not perform. He remembers telling her he loves his wife when she brought her feelings forth the week prior to the operation. After the operation, he remembers the oral sex with this person. There is no way he would if risk our marriage. Not for this person who he wasnt attracted too, physically, emotionally or spiritually. He is in shock himself. He can't even tell me why it happened nor how he justified it to himself. In sum, can a burnout and/or hydrocode, provoke dissociation? And does this mean, he could have indeed been unaware of his action. When I discovered thisz it had been three weeks since the operation and one day since he had stopped the medication. He was strange in his defense. Since then we have moved and have no jobs but we are together, both suicidal for we don't understand how this could of happend. If it had been the reverse, the woman could of charge a man for attempting to take advantage of one who was on medication and was aware of the extreme job pressure  she was actually enjoying being secretive. Agaib, he would of never done this to us I think. But I fear, I am at lost how to help myself stay alive, subsequently him also, for he can't imagine himself without me. Please help us.