I am 19 years old and just 6 weeks ago I found out I was 30 weeks pregnant. I am now 36 weeks and 1 day. I want to say that I promise this isn't a joke, and this really isn't a lie. And I'm posting on here because I'm scared, I have a lot of questions and I'd really like some support and some good answers. 6 weeks ago, i woke up in the morning with my stomach really tight and hard to the point where it was unbearably uncomfortable. I called my mom from my room and let her feel my stomach. She immediately told me something didn't seem right and said we should go to the doctor. I went to my family doctor and he came in and did a check up, and felt my stomach. He looked at me funny and said "I would like for you to go get some xrays. But first you need to go here to get a pregnancy test." Obviously he thought that I could be pregnant because I had been to the doctor before for X-rays and he never referred me to get a pregnancy test first. That started to freak me out. Although I knew there was no possible way I could be pregnant because I was having my regular periods (they were usually months apart because I had irregular periods) So I agreed to go get a test at the hospital. They took urine and a blood test and it came out positive. I was so shocked. I had no idea this could have happened and never thought it would happen to me. The doctor came in and said that he needed to admit me to a room and start me on an iv because they had no idea how far along I could be and also the baby has had no prenatal care. They gave me something to put on and the doctor came in. She felt my stomach (to find my uterus to see about how far along she thought I was) and it was already above my belly button! She was shocked, and looked frightened honestly. And said "You are about 28-30 weeks pregnant" I looked at her in disbelief. There was no way. I was tiny and hadn't gotten any bigger. Not even a baby bump. It seemed completely impossible. They took me in to do an emergency ultrasound and it turned out I'm having a healthy baby girl. And was told she weighed 4.2 pounds! 
 It's been 6 weeks, and now that I know I'm pregnant I've been eating as much as I want and can so I've grown some! I have a noticeable belly now. But it's still tiny! I have so many questions. How bad to contractions hurt before 3-4 centimetres? If i can sit through a large tattoo on my ribs will an epidural hurt? And can you feel the pain after it? I'm getting better about not bein scared about labor but I'd like to hear some answers and story's to make me feel better! Thanks. (Sorry this was so long I had to get it all out!)