When a married man of 15 yrs. with 4 young sons say his wife doesn't inspire him, what doe he really mean? 
Last August my husband announced his dying love for me and in many ways showed how detestable I was to him.  He did not let me touch him much less get near him. He gave me the silent treatment and purposely withheld his affection from me. This treatment was a very very violent tearing apart of our relationship. I never felt so much pain in my entire life. There is hell on earth, not just after death.  
 He made unexpected plans to go away to visit his parents -without me- so he could let them know that we - as a family- have relocated to another state and are doing well. I thought it was strange but honorable. What really happened was he made arrangements to visit an old girlfriend. His visit must have been so passionate that when he returned to me, he was cold as ice through his speech, his behavior, his expressions and his comments.  He was very cold and uninviting.  When I asked him, he said that taking time off that week really helped him confirm how much he wants to divorce me. He said during that week, he thought a lot about us and has decided that we're not compatible. He tells me that my behavior is unacceptable to him and I'm no longer lovable in his eyes. I don't inspire him. He blames me for his friends leaving him, blames me for the debt we've incurred, blames me for not having the reputation he desires, blames me for how poor we are, blames me for not being a stronger social bug so he can bring friends to be entertained. He claims I'm trying to isolate him. He even told me son he's dating to discipline and teach mommy a lesson, to be nicer and friendlier because mommy's mean and doesn't like visitors and friends.  Now, when I do something that angers my son (age 11) he'll steal my things and hide them so I can't use them. That's his way of punishing me.  He even wrote me a letter stating that I better not do anything to make him angry, otherwise he will get upset. He wrote in another letter that if I hit him, he will not hold back on hitting me even if he gets in trouble. My other sons stand up to me. When I tell them to do something, they'll flat out say "no!".  He says my weaknesses (I'm an introvert) shame him and don't bring honor to him. I don't inspire him. And so, I asked him how might I inspire him? And he says, to know that I'll have to go read it in a book. 
 I am so confused? Is it me? or is it him? The only thing I'm clear about is, this mind game he's playing hurts my heart and thus is playing truth or dare with my heart. And, I can't bear it any more. Please help..men out there. Please help ... I have 4 sons who are watching their father .. and I need to know if I should stay, change and keep the family together, hopefully. Or if I should just face my demons and go becuase all that he's saying are just excuses to cover up his own selfishness that will lead me back down the road of a shattered heart?