Hi everyone
 I'm probably going to sound like a horrible parent, but I can't figure out whether my 12yr old daughter is depressed or being plain selfish.
 My daughter has started cutting herself, but it only happens when my husband and I don't give her what she wants.  When she wants more money or wants to go out late at night or go spend an entire week at her boyfriends house we say no, so she goes to her room, cuts herself then comes to show me.  I try to talk to her and ask her why she does this, so she starts telling me that I am a horrible parent and that I don't love her, she says things like "oh you just want to hit me don't you" or "if you could have a "do over" you wouldn't want me".  When I pry more she gets very frustrated with me then starts telling me that she's depressed and just wants to die.
 We try to spend more time with her, but she tells us to go away and then complains we don't spend time with her.  My husband used to take her out for lunch etc, but only stopped cos she didn't want to go and now complains that he doesn't.  She's even stopped us from spending time with her 4yr old sister cos she accuses us of favoring the other over her.  So the only outing my 4yr old gets is grocery shopping day.  Meanwhile my 12yr old goes out with friends 2-3 times a week.
 I've started noticing that she gets like this when she doesn't get what she wants.  The day would be going great and we would all be happy chatting and then she'll make a demand we say no so she runs into her room and cuts herself.  I don't believe in giving in as I know this will only make things work, but its getting to the point where you think maybe I should.
 I'm currently pregnant with our 3rd child and she wants me to get rid of it, I told her that it is not an option, she shouldn't even be asking me this and if I did it means I wold have to kill the baby, she just shrugged her shoulders and said well I suppose you could look at it that way.
 I have made arrangements to take her to counseling, but I just can't help but think she's being a selfish little princess.  I know that there is something causing this.  My husband and I are prepared to be the reason for all this, as we are aware that we are not the most perfect of parents and maybe our problems have flowed onto her, but its just the way she's been acting is making us feel like she's just being a spoiled little brat.
 I know she has esteem issues and probably other issues.  I am in fear that one day she is actually going to cut too much and kill herself.  I don't want to give in, but I wonder should I let her have what she wants? am I a horrible parent? is it really all my fault?
 Then after all her yelling and wanting to die, she'll wake up the next day with a big smile and go out with her friends. I just can't understand.  I'm in tears when she walks out the door because of sheer frustration.