So... When I was younger I went to a psychiatrist but didn’t like it at all. I have been on paxil, effexor, and wellbutrin. I dont really like to be but i think when i was younger i felt as though i needed to be. 
 One of the questions I had was that after I stopped taking paxil i noticed that i was very jittery... my hands shake and i cannot control it. I usually cannot notice but if someone i don’t know is sitting across the table from me they can. It is embarrassing but i assumed it would go away after i stopped the medication and it never did. 
 I stopped taking anti-depressants when I was a sophomore in highs school and am now a freshman in college. 
 But.. 
 A few months ago I felt as though i was very stressed out and i felt emotional unstable (like i would cry about nothing and i would emotionally "break down") So i went to my doctor and asked to be put on wellbutrin becaue I had taken it before and then experience was much better then that of paxil and effexor. 
 I took Wellbutrin for about a Month and a half and then stopped. I took it more because it made me feel calm and made me not stress out about school and other things. Is this what it is intended to do? Or is it sociological? 
 I feel as though if I take a pill it will fix everything but I don’t know if it is working or if it is just me thinking its working? (Don’t know if this makes since so if it does not, you don’t have to answer) 
  Finally, my doctor knows that I have stopped taking the medication and do not wish to see a psych but has recommended that I be on medication of some type. I was diagnosed with clinical depression and I think it runs in my family because my mom has been taking paxil for as long as I can remember to the point were if she does not i can tell because her moon changes. I think my brother is also on ambien, my mom takes that too) 
 She is a nurse so im sure she knows what she is doing but i don’t want to explain all of this to her at the moment because of her own situation.
 I don’t feel as though I need to see any one or need to be on medication because I’m "depressed" anymore. But it is hard to concentrate a lot and I feel as though I am ADD, and the wellbutrin helped me stay up late and concentrate on my school work. But Rarly do I feel depressed to the point were I want to be on medication for it.  lol well that that I feel like.  Maybe it is because I have grown older and matured but I would like your opinion.