When I met my 21 year my ex-boyfriend 3 years ago (2007) he claimed he had a borderline personality. He told me this on the heels of a girl named Tracey breaking up with him after a week because she thought he was creepy. I didn't know what that meant but I was not going to ask questions because I was dealing with depression and didn't like people asking me about it.
 Summer 2007: We started dating.  But it always felt more like a friendship because he would seem to shy away from me at times and be depressed. I knew it was because of this girl Jessica he has had an obsession with since  the 9th grade. A month and a half later I found out that she had tricked him into kissing her which I didn't hear about until a week later because  I finally got him to stop ignoring me. He told that we hardly know each other and that he is a terrible person. That I don't know how horrible he really is. I was devastated. But in a short time we were back together again. 
 This pulling me in and pushing me away went on for 2 years mixed in with a lot of drama. It was as if he would get comfortable and then get uncomfortable with me. When we were not together he would act like we were friends but come around looking for sex. I guess since we were each others firsts and I was the only person who would give it to him.  I was stupid to fall for his "affection" over and over again. His excuses for pushing me away were that he was a bad person. We seriously dated for the first time after he graduated when he vowed to forget about Jessica. 
 We dated seriously for the first time in September 2008-Valentines day. Valentines day we were suppose to go out but he claimed he was sick. I didn't believe him. I found out that he had been talking to a girl he met online in October. I yelled at him for the first time I've ever know him. All the other times I let him walk all over me. I told him he was a scum bag and seriously needed help...among other things. He was hurt by my words. Not even a week later he was dating this girl!  1 week! The same week he went to visit her. After the second visit he came over and cried telling me that he was so sorry. He started cuddling with me and we had sex. This went on for the whole 3 months he was dating her because apparently he was not over me yet.  But he would not tell her what was gong on. He would be with me and each time I found she was in town I was crushed. Again I was stupid and believed that he would choose me. In June 2009 he got in a fight with one of our mutual friends and outed his secret while his girlfriend was in the room. He came to me balling his eyes out telling me how sorry he was and that he wanted to be with me the whole time. He should of never broke up with me. I fell for it and took him back. 
 We were fine until November of 2009. He was having family problems and was really depressed. So he needed space. When I asked if it was another girl he said no. He told me when things settled down we would get back together and that he was happy I was waiting for him. Thanksgiving passed and I didn't hear from him. During the first two weeks of December he would come over and never seem to want to leave. When he did he would be back 3 hours later. I thought this is great. He loves me and we are going to be ok. One night his girl from New York contacted me wanting my side of the story from what happened between us during the summer. We talked for 4 hours and here while he was telling me that he was happy I was waiting for him she was in town Thanksgiving weekend!!!! He was trying to date us both again for the second time. The next morning we attacked him. He told me that she was a crazy lying ***** and if I wanted to believe her over him than fine. He told her that he had nothing to say. So he choose me but I was angry. I wanted to talk to him about this but when he came over I  failed to say anything and took him back. For the next 7 months things were great. We would bicker here and there about things but nothing serious. I thought I had finally got him and didn't want to let him go. In May he got a new job after being unemployed for a while and then got a new car. He had been using my car up until this point. He started going out with his friends all day and all night, coming over to my house looking for sex and then going to sleep. I was upset that he was acting like I was not important anymore. All the while he was talking to Jessica again and I saw him leaving her flirting comments on Facebook that I did confront him about. He didn't want to hear it. I noticed him starting to push me away again. 
 One night I was at a party and my friend told me that my boyfriend had been hanging around Pet smart hitting on Jessica who also works there. But she thought it was really creepy. I was so hurt that I text him to tell him how I felt about it. He told me to find a new boyfriend because he was sick of fighting with me about stupid crap. I was in shock. After all of these months it was over. He was punishing me for going behind his back and hitting on another girl? He came by a couple of days later to pick up his stuff. We talked for a while and decided that we were going to work on things and everything would be ok. We were working on things for a couple of weeks or so.  We would go out to dinner and hang out. He would still hold my hand. One day he was flirting with me and telling me that after he went to the bar he would come over and cuddle with me. He was drunk when he came over but was telling me that he loved me and that I am still his best friend. I am one of the few people who will spend time with him. That I am awesome because I do things for him. The next day he thanked me for taking care  of him and hoped that i wasn't too much trouble. He was flirting me and everything. A few days passed and I didn't hear from him. Until I went looking for answers. He finally text me saying he is sorry but he is busy tonight and can't talk. I asked him if it was another girl and he said yes I am going on a date. That he has been doing a lot of soul searching over the past week and that he thinks it is best for us to date other people because we have tried so many times to make it work in the past and that it always ends up the same. But he still wants to be friends if that is possible. I tired to talk to him about it some more but he said maybe some other time. Like it was no big deal that I was hurt and dealing with it was getting in the way of his life. I was pissed! How could he tell me that he loved me and I was his best friend, flirt with me and tell me we will work on things, and then go ahead and make a date with someone without regarding my feelings? I heard from him a couple  of weeks later on Facebook. I asked him how he was doing and he told me that he is a **** up. His whole life is nothing but one big **** up. Then he signed off and the next day he deleted me from Facebook. Less than a week later he was in a new relationship. With who? Tracey! The same girl who dumped him in high school after one week because he was creepy. Its possible that she thinks he has matured since then but come on!  
 They have dating for 3 weeks and I have not heard from him since he deleted me. Here is what I know about their 3 weeks relationship so far : He has been treating her like gold and they think each other is amazing, they already said that they love each other, they are with each other everyday, he thinks she is the best thing to ever happen to him. I don't understand how he can treat her like gold and think so highly of her and treat me like crap for most of the 3 years we were together. I tried so hard to love him and take care of him. I did everything for him and he never appreciated any of it. I was there for him when he had breakdowns. Now he doesn't want anything to do with me.  Now I'm alone and he has someone. Why don't I have someone? I deserve it more than he does. Is it possible he has decided to change for her?