I don't even know how to begin. My husband thinks this thing called Ascension is happening on 12-21-2012 and we all need to be prepared for it. He is making me watch youtube videos to prepare me for it so I can help teach the kids who are grown and no longer at home. He honestly believes there are aliens out there that are protecting us and are going to come and help us go from physical beings to light and vibrations. We will all be able to read each others minds and we will be able to transform things with our minds. Our DNA is also going to change.  And we only have two months to prepare for this, when we should really have eight like he did. He says he was so depressed at first and wanted to shoot himself in the head, but started thinking, why am I here, and with all the time on his hands and drugs in his system he started searching youtube and he now believes he is here for a higher purpose. To help us all ascend when the time comes. He almost went so far as to call himself a prophet. He says he has never been so happy in his life. He does do illegal drugs, not sure what he all does, but I know marijuana and maybe even meth.
 He believes he has already begun ascending and when it is complete he is going to just disappear. He wants to teach it all to me so I can convince the kids. He truly thinks he is protecting us.
 He even had me reading something he had highlighted in the bible and to text Roger (his friend who also believes in this ascension), so Roger could tell me to believe what he has to say. He made me read from the bible about wisdom, he said it would help prepare me so that I could open my mind to what he wants to teach me.
 He claims there is going to be an earthquake on my birthday April 13 or soon after that and that's when it's all going to start and it's only going to get worse from there. But then he'll turn around and say there is nothing to be afraid of, it's going to be beautiful. We won't need anymore earthly possessions. 
 He says time travel is now possible. Also he says he saw an airplane flying over yesterday and it just disappeared from the sky, right before his eyes. He says there is going to be an announcement on the news sometime soon that aliens have been discovered here on earth, living among us. He thinks aliens are causing the sun to have massive sun flares. He says the earth is going off its orbit and they are going to redo all the airport runways and gps systems, because they are all wrong because of this. He is also talking about awakening, whatever that is, but he is going to teach me all these things, so I can convince the kids to start preparing. He says that Canada, the US and South America are going to all become one country and we will have the same dollar. He also says that those of us who don't believe and don't ascend are going to be put in concentration camps. I can't even laugh about this anymore because he really believes it is happening, that it has already started. That's why the weather has been so warm.  Oh and the government and aliens are all behind it. The government is crooked and out to take all our rights away. He claims we are not allowed to have gardens or collect rain water. All the stores are going to be empty because gas is going to go up to $8 a gallon. So all the trucks will stop moving. He also said that in a few months some very bad people will come looking for him to do him harm, because of all this stuff he is spreading around. They don't like it and they don't want us to know about what is happening, not quite sure if he is talking about the governments or the aliens, maybe both. He also believes that the US is owned by Britain and that we are all just "tenants" in our homes, because that's what it says on the deed to our house. I have not been able to look at the deed to see if this is correct, but that doesn't matter.
 He is also talking about some drilling that is going on in Alabama and all the states around there, some fault line, can't remember what he called it, they are tunneling under these states and also evacuating them, so they can stop this volcano that is under there from erupting. When China or what ever country it was that had that massive earthquake last summer he claims HARP is responsible and there were over 200 major earthquakes that same day. All caused by this HARP.
 He's got me so paranoid I jump at every little thing. Plus he starts to get agitated when I don't want to see any of it. He claims he won't hurt me, but after a text message I saw that he sent to Roger, I'm not quite sure what to make of it. It said and I quote "ya and if I can't figure out a way to get the ****** old lady to start gettin on the same page she gonna have some pain  im just worried about the grnd kid man and friends." What should I think of that, is he going to hurt me if I don't start believing, or is he worried about what will happen if I don't. 
 This is just a small sample of what he has been saying to me. What do I do, how do I get help for him. This all started after he had surgery on his neck. I did not realize how much he believed this is happening until today when he kept telling me he wants to help me and the rest of the family. I am at my wits end and not sure where to turn or who I should talk to. Could you please advise me on what my first, step would be. Thank you