44 years old. Everything has been going along normally other than...I have been told by Endo I am Anemic but I hear lots of women with Hashimotos are. So I haven't worried. Periods were regular usually every 26-28 days. Lasting 3 days off one and back on for 1.  Take thyroid and have been having to take Met since I delivered because the gestational never went away. I know alot of women w/ my thyroid problem have PCOS and take met. Not sure I have that though. 
Started 17 days ago with some dark discharge blackish brown then it went to pale red with some blood clots but mostly was just spotting never saturated a pad. Just notice with wiping. About 4 days ago I seemed to to START what felt like an actual period. Heavier flow. Normal for me. But cramping especially if I am, up trying to do stuff. But I was awaken today by cramps, so it had nothing to do with physical activity. 
The Gyno I went to because I had began with terrible itching and burning and then the bleeding. Gave me Lotrisone and told me if the bleeding stopped in a normal amount of time it was probably just uneventful cycling. But if it didn't stop he wanted to do a biopsy for Cancer.  Nothing in the middle, no Ultra sound, no, blood tests Just jump right into a biopsy. He kind of scared me. He mentioned that they can try Progesterone to try to control the bleeding and if that helped then it was just perimenopause.  So I went on my way and was very busy  Peeling wall paper &  painting my Mom's house for 4 days that I didn't notice anything but just bleeding all the time (just a little). 
So I call him at day 9 and ask for the hormones to try. He put me on Aygestin 5mg I am on day 5 and what puzzles me is that I actually started to bleede worse and it's not stopping. Although it seems I was having something abnormal and now just a regular menstral cycle on top of that. But I am, not sure. I hate to ask him questions because he is very impatient.  I am, anemic already been bleeding for 9 days and I was having confusion and he was getting annoyed with me for not understanding the instructions, which by the way the Pharmacist got all messed up. Also told me that the Aygestin was ESTROGEN.   
All he wants is for me to get a biopsy and frankly I am, a little scared and would like to have some info that is possitive and that It may be some thing else! 
When I had my last child I had an amnio while the tech was doing the Ultrasound portions she said something about have I ever been told I had... either fibercystic or she said Polycystic, I don't recall because the other person promptly told her to be quiet and ussered her out of the room. That was the last I ever heard about this and I have wondered ever since. After delivery and ever since I have always felt like my Uterus has never gone back to it's normal size. It feels as though I am, always 6 months pregnant.  And now this.... 
Any thoughts? Any thoughts other than Uterine Cancer.  Is it typical to have cramps with Uterine Cancer? 
Is it possible that I am, having a period and that the Aygestin is not working because of the period? Or should it have stopped it by now? 
Sorry about all the questions, just a little freaked out here
 After I posted this on another folder..its been 5 more days but I have had  2 of those w/no bleeding. It stops and starts again. This is one reason I am, more concerned. Or is this happening because of the Hormone he put me on?