I'm a 15, almost 16, year old girl. My parents yell at me constantly, even over stupid things. I can't do anything right and it makes me sad. They make me sad. It gets to the point where all I want to do is cry and sleep. I had a dream recently that my mom got really mad at me in a store and took me in the dressing room and hit me. I'm scared they're going to hit me even though they've told me they'd never do that.. My brother and sister never get yelled at..my sister is the favorite one because she went into music (my parents are religious about music) and my brother is the perfect one because he went into computer science and never does anything wrong. I don't remember the last time anybody said anything bad about him. I really want to act, but my parents and sister are all "how are you going to make a living off that?" I don't know, but least I'll be out of this hell-hole. I thought about being a vet, but my mom doesn't think I could do it because I'm too emotional. Then a few months later when I asked her what I should do she told me to be a vet. My parents are such hypocrites! They yell at me for things and then they go do the exact same things! I hate being home when they're around. I can't do crap right. I'm a 4.0, top of my class, and taught myself geometry last year cause the "teacher" doesn't know crap. I wanted to kill myself from about November of last year to about April of this year. I tried to talk to my "friends" about it but all they did was change the subject and then talk about me behind my back. The only person who actually helped me was a guy I was crushing on but he ended up being a total jerk, so that's over. Now I'm depressed and suicidal again. I told my mom I was suicidal and she told me to "get over it" cause "life isn't always fun" I never want to be a mother because of her. I never want to become her and put my kids through hell. I believe it would be better if my kids stayed unborn. I have very low self esteem, I think I'm stupid, worthless, and should just freakin die already cause I'm wasting oxygen for the smart people. The only reason I haven't killed myself yet is because I was taught that if you kill yourself you'll go to hell. I've looked up that question and found yes's and no's so I really don't want to take a chance and find out. I wish God would just end me already so I don't have to feel like crap. All this stress about being the perfect kid and all the yelling at me makes me want to die. I wish I would've never been born. Part of me wants to hold on til I go to college, become successful, and then never see them again, just to show them up. I guess I'm stuck here though anyway, thanks to my religion.