I don't really know where to start, but i need help. I'm going crazy and I'm not me. i am 19. i don't have a dad. when i got out of AIT Oct. 27, 2012, my mom shot herself in front of me Oct. 28, 2012. She was my best friend. We were at a halloween party and i hate parties, I've never been that kind of girl, so i had my boyfriend of 3 years pick me up so i wouldn't be a party pooper. we were never in a fight ( never as in my whole life i never got to have a fight with my mom) or anything, she just did it the second i told her he was coming to get me. Well, after that happened, i was trying really hard to stay strong, but then i found porn on my Fiances computer in Jan, 2013, which he promised to me face, looking in my eyes and everything, that he would never look at and if he did that he would tell me. It hurt me super bad. i hate lies. i am so truthful. he told me he wouldn't do it anymore, so i finally forgave him. i found it again in March. and he said he didnt mean it last time, but he meant it this time, so i forgave him again. Well i just found it again and i told him that if i were to find it again that i would not be with him anymore, bc my heart is falling apart. i don't know who i am, what i like to do, or who i can trust. my mom IS my best friend and i cant accept that she is gone. my self esteem is at an all time low and people tell me im sexy and stuff, but if i was, why would he look at porn, especially when he knows im hurting the worst, then lie to me about he? right to my face! i feel like there is no reason to be here anymore. i love him so much and want him to want me as much as i want him, but he barely even notices me. i'm so numb but i hurt so bad. since i found it i have been living an outer body experience. i dont know what to do. i wish i was strong enough to die so i could see my mom again. i miss her so much. i love my fiance, but now im scared to marry him bc i dont trust him at all but i am scared to be without him. i'm scared to be alone. someone, please help me. ive talked to him so much about it. it hurts me so bad. i feel so ugly and so fat and like he doesn't even want me. i'm too young to feel like this.