Hi 
My 22 year old daughter with mosaic down syndrome had a psychotic break last February and she ended up in the hospital for a months stay.  Up until this point she was very high functioning and attending a special program at a local university.  My daughter was diagnosed with OCD at the age of 13 and was treated with paxil.  Her paxil was increased to 40mg last February and Respirdol was added to help with the psychosis.  She was on 3mg of Respirdol but we have decreased it to 2mg under doctors care of course.  She has gained approximately 100 pounds this year and is consumed with food.  She was given a working diagnosis of Schizophrenia but I question this diagnosis.  She doesn't hear voices all the time only when she feels stressed.  These voices seem to be comforting voices telling her things like it's ok. etc.  She also states she hears celebrity's voices such as the Jonas Brothers, Ellen, Dr. Phil etc encouraging her and ensuring her that she is fine.  This happens very seldom now but when she was in the throws of her psychotic break this was an everyday occurrence.  Her passion was to be an actress and I wonder if the realization that this is unlikely to happen has caused these celebrity voices.  She lost two close friends when she was in high school and she believes that they came to her in her bedroom shortly after their death and told her everything would be fine and not to worry.  This was long before the psychotic break happened but it affected her enough that she would not sleep in her room for a long time afterwards.  She has told me in the past that she believes that spirits have tried to contact her but this terrifies her especially now since her break.  She is not the same outgoing, fun loving, girl she used to be.  She is like a zombie now, she moves in very slow motion and is uninterested in socializing, and gets little pleasure from day to day life.  She never seems to be with us but gazes nowhere.  There were many factors I believe led to her psychotic break and I don't believe she has had another one in this past year.  She also has sleep apnea too and I am sure the weight gain has made it worse.
My question to you is because of her downs syndrome, should she be looked at differently with regards to her medications and dosages.  Perhaps her body doesn't require the same as other peoples bodies do and perhaps there are meds out there that work better for people like my daughter????  
Thanks
Robin