I apologize for length ahead of time, but I just wanted to include the back story leading up to my experience with an oncologist yesterday.
 When I was 16 I started getting a shooting/electric shock feeling pain to the left side of my face.  At the time a Doctor said it was most likely TMJ.  Around that same time I noticed a lump under my chin, and the Doctor said it was just a swollen lymph node.  Fast forward years later, and that lump is still there, but feels like it had gotten bigger.  A different doctor said that sometimes on thin people (I weigh about 115lbs) lymph nodes can be felt more easily, and I shouldn't be too concerned since I was young.  I didn't think too much of it after that.
 About 2 years ago (I'm 27 now) the shock pain to my face came back, and I started getting frequent migraines.  At first the face pain would happen once every 6 months or so, but within the last year it has progressed to a point that it occurs daily.  I went to a neurologist and they stated I have trigeminal neuralgia and chronic complex migraines.  I have taken gabapentin and tegretol with no relief.  I noticed in the last year that the lump was even bigger, and about 3 months ago I noticed a lump right infront of my left ear that was not there before.
 I have also had other symptoms which led to my neurologist doing tests to find out if I had multiple sclerosis.  My other symptoms are: hot flashes/sweating, confusion/forgetfulness, loss of appetite, 10lb weight loss in the last year, itchiness all over (it gets so bad that my skin gets flaky), constant diarrhea, fatigue/weakness, 6 low-grade fevers in the last year, and muscle spasms.  MS was ruled out, and my primary doctor requested an ultrasound of my neck to check out the lumps.
 The radiology report for my ultrasound stated I have 6 swollen lymph nodes with the largest one being 1.5cm on the short scale, and the others ranging from 4mm to 9mm.  It was determined that the lumps are probably putting pressure on my trigeminal nerve since they are located on the same path as the nerve, it could explain the increase in the occurrence of trigeminal neuralgia attacks as the lumps were growing.  After the ultrasound I also noticed that I could feel two lumps on the small of my back, but I don't know how long they have been there.
 My father had melanoma that metastasized to his brain and lymph nodes, and passed away at 44.  He was told probably he had cancer for about 10 years before its discovery and could have had a better chance if it was found sooner.  My mother had pre-cancerous cells to her lymph nodes, thyroid, and cervix which lead to having them surgically removed.  Due to my family's history, I expressed my concern with my primary doctor and he referred me to an oncologist to set up a biopsy thinking on one hand they could be benign and their removal will take pressure off of my trigeminal nerve, and on the other hand it could be canerous.  My blood test also showed elevated platelets, hematocrit, lymphocyte, and eosinophil counts.
 I saw a hematologist/oncologist yesterday, and he spent no more than 10 minutes with me.  All he did was glance over my blood test, touch my neck, and touch my back.  He stated that my lumps were not lymph nodes, and that they were salivary glands.  He said that all I needed to do was gargle warm saltwater every night to get my salivary glands to activate, and if the lumps don't go down after that I should go to an ENT.  I informed him that the report from a radiologist of my ultrasound stated the lumps were lymph nodes, and asked if he wanted to view the disc of my ultrasound since I brought it with me.  He dismissed this saying he didn't need to see it as lymph nodes are located on the sides of the neck not under my chin (though anatomy images show lymph nodes also run under the chin), and that the radiologist probably misinterpreted the image.  He stated the lumps on my back also were not lymph nodes, and that they were probably cysts or neuromas.  He also stated I may have mono or herpes, and that it could be causing my salivary glands to become inflamed (I am skeptical that this is the case as I have only been with my husband, and we've been together for 10 years).  He ordered a blood test for infectitious diseases, and stated he would call me on Monday to inform me of whether or not I have mono or herpes.  I informed him that the whole purpose of the appointment was to get me set up for a biopsy for the lumps, and he stated he doesn't see a need for a biopsy.  I did tell him every symptom I had, and he stated that my symptoms were vague and could be caused by any number of things.  He also stated he doesn't see a need to order even a CT scan in the least to confirm that my lumps were my salivary glands and not lymph nodes.  He said I'm very young, and shouldn't be too concerned with the possibility of cancer.
 My question is can an oncologist tell it's a salivary gland/lymph node/cyst/neuroma/whatever just by touch alone?  Is it even worth getting a second opinion?  Has anyone else experienced a similar interaction with a Doctor?  This Doctor has a reputable reputation according to on-line reviews and is listed as a lymphoma specialist, so a part of me wonders if he's just "that good" at identifying tumors or if he was being dismissive due to me being "too young."