I apologize if this is long, I'm just really confused right now.  I have been with my husband for over 10 years.  We have 4 kids together and he has raised my oldest (now 13) since she was a toddler. He's the only Dad she's ever known.  We aren't perfect parents, we both have depression and mood disorders and take medication.  My husband has made great strides the last few yers with his anger problems, I had done well until I went off meds for a pregnancy and have since been very moody.  
 I had thought that the last several months my oldest and I and she and my husband had both improved our relationships with each other.  She was talking to me more, chatting about friends and asking me all kinds of questions about just abotu everything.  Her and her Dad (stepdad) seemed to get al ong better as well.  I've known for awhile that she has a problem with internalizing her feelings and not talking about them.  
 Last night I got the shock of my life. She had gone to stay at a friends house and in the middle of the night I get a call from the LAW telling me they have my daughter.  My husband and I both went down there, we had to take the rest of the kids with us.  When we got there they asked him to stay in the waiting room with the kids.  I went back and had my world compeltely turned upside down.  My daughter has accused my husband of molesting her??!?!?!?
 I want to believe them both.  The only incidents she has brought up have been this past week, starting wednesday to be exact...she says that once he rubbed her crotch and made a "throaty noise" and that another day he asked to see her breasts. He, of course, denies it.  He's not mad, more, but he keeps going over things trying to figure out what he did that she could have misconstrued.  She's not usually the type to make stuff up but at the same time she is easily persuaded into thinking things.  I find it odd that she just so happened to be at this girls house when all this went down. 
 Her behavior and demeanor have not changed over the last several days, she didn't tell me, nor did she tell her grandma whom she confides a lot of stuff in.  She saved some texts that her dad sent her but as the officer said it's nothing incriminating.  There is no evidence, no witnesses, and the found no reason for an arrest.  My husband has to go down tuesday to make a statement and will be offered a lie detector test.  Soemthing that bothers me about her accusations is that she's always been one to not like saying words that refer to private parts or talking about sexually related things.  Even in just asking me things about pregnancy she gets really shy and mumbles when she says stuff.  But last night when they turned on the tape to record her statement she was spitting things out almost like it was rehearsed??  Complete with sound effects.  
 In light of the situation I sent her back to her friends for the night becuase I had nowhere else for any of us to go.  Becuase of the sitaution I went in her room and found her journal and read it. I wanted to see if maybe she mentioned anything in it.  She only has a few entries.  Mostly about how much she hates me and DH and calls us a bunch of names and talks about how she enjoys pushing our buttons and that she thinks WE enjoy pissing HER off.  She talks about this boy she likes and goes on to mention something about marks on her wrist and cutting herself.  I've never noticed these but I don't go inspecting her wrists either.  I will be checking when she gets home.  She also refers to her siblings as "the rest of the little SH***S"  From what I read it's obvious she has serious anger and resentment issues with us.  
 I can't help but wonder if this isn't a way to get back at us or something.  I have never seen anything inappropriate between my husband and her or my husband and our other daughter.  Who's side do you take? How do you handle this?  At this point I'm sitting in limbo and don't know WHAT to think or do.  I don't want to believe she's a liar but I don't want to believe my husband is a child molester either.  Someone from childrens services is supposed to be calling to interview us today.  I will also be calling first thing monday to schedule an appt with a psychiatric counselor for my daughter.  I dont' want to be one of those parents that assumes my child is a liar, but at the same time I don't have any evidence to believe it really happened either.  Even the officers acted like they didn't believe her.  We  aren't takling about a trouble maker...she's had straight a's sine 4th grade.  Never had detention or been sent to the office, etc.