I'm an adult female who has very unstable relationships. My ex boyfriend whom I spent over a year with was diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder. I have recently begun another relationship after over 3 years of being single, and I believe my significant other might have it too. My biggest concern here is... Am I repeating history? Or am I the problem??? I believe that I might have BPD as well. I have done a lot of research on the subject and express a lot of the 'high functioning' behaviors. I am in college, a single parent and I have rational goals with motivation to achieve them. 
 When it comes to relationships... I don't feel like myself.. Well when it comes to chosen relationships. I can recall times where I would begin 'talking' to someone, or getting to know them... And in maybe 5 or so specific 'relationships' it would turn into co-dependence, i would really get to like them and get attached. We would talk all day long, no matter what it was about, and I would see myself jumping to conclusions as to why this person isn't talking to me, if they were busy or something. I have extreme trust issues, stemming from my childhood and past relationships. But, I also have a problem with intimacy. When it comes down to that, I usually begin pulling away even though I want it. When I don't want it however, or I do not feel a connection with the other person, I usually give in to the pressure because I feel wanted and needed and I don't have to get my emotions involved. Therefore, I don't feel that I am losing anything if it goes bad, I am just reaping the benefits of being wanted.
 I am insecure and I have an extremely hard time completely opening up to people about my emotions and inner-self. Especially on an intimate level because I have had sexually abusive relationships, and with my previous ex, I was left for a guy. Later discovering that my ex had been cheating on me with men in our relationship while I was pregnant. I'm not sure if this relationship had completely destroyed my trust, and is making it next to impossible for me to see people as 'good' when they begin to act cold towards me; or, if I have been this way all along and relationships are bringing out what I've been unaware of.
 I am also an Empath, and I believe I am good at 'reading' other people. I have learned about this within the last year or so and I believe it has helped me understand a lot. But, this is why I don't understand where all of these hot and cold relationships are coming from??? I can usually spot a bad seed right off the bat... 
 I'm just at a loss where the line is drawn here. What is 'average' and what is considered 'borderline'???? Do I have trust issues or do I have a personality disorder as a result of numerous traumas??? I am so confused. Please help me out here.