I am 47 and pretty healthy overall. I've always had very regular, normal periods. No major health issues, except some digestive issues that for the most part are pretty treatable. I've had two surgeries in the past, an appendectomy and a mass removed from my small intestine, but I've done pretty well since then. 
 A few years ago I had an ultrasound done, also, because I was having abdominal pain but they didn't see anything except a large gallstone in my gallbladder. 
 This month my period came on time, early in the morning of Feb. 2nd. Normally, my periods last about 4 to 5 days. However, I still am having some bleeding well past when I should have, fluctuating between bright red and brown (as if it was stopping but would start up again). It was only a small amount and didn't think too much of it at first until yesterday, Feb. 15th, it acted more like a beginning of a period (heavier). I am still bleeding and am puzzled by this because this makes 15 days now of bleeding. That has never happened before. 
 The only other thing I noticed this month was my breasts were extemely painful the week before my period started (started out feeling itchy for a few days and then  moved to painful). I've had this happen before (though not every month) and attributed it to hormones. 
 I also had one incident about 5 days after my period started (around the 6th) where I started getting cramping that got worse and worse till I could barely move or breathe, it hurt so bad. I've had cramping before, of course, but never to this extreme and even though it felt similar to menstrual cramping, it felt different and more intense than I've ever experienced. This lasted about a half hour and then gradually let up. 
 I'm just wondering if I'm starting to experience the beginnings of Perimenopause or Menopause or if it could be something else? Should I get tested for anything else? 
Also, I heard there's a blood test that can be done to see if you're entering Menopause but someone told me you have to time it right, so when is the right timing for that? 
 I don't have hot flashes or anything like that. Just wondering why my period is not letting up more than two weeks after it started.