I am in such a deep, dark rut and i have no idea of how to pull myself out of it.
 I start my day by waking with barely the energy to sit upright, feeling so weak and feeble.  As i pull myself up and sit on the edge of my bed this overwhelming sense of dread and despair fills me and i just want to cry my heart out, for it’s another day i have to contend with and struggle through and put a brave face on for.
 I have been diagnosed with Agoraphobia, panic disorder, GAD, social phobia, OCD and depression.  I have a CPN, psychiatrist and have had extensive therapy but even still I’m sinking further and further into this rut and things continue to get worse.  My shrink recently put me on a low dose anti-psychotic for my anxiety and I’ve been on a beta blocker for years.  I’ve tried nearly every anti-depressant going but my body suffers terrible, disabling side effects so they are not an option.  The only thing i take that seems to work is benzo’s but my doc’s won’t prescribe them freely and to get them is like pulling teeth, for reasons we all know.... but this seems to be like a really cruel joke being played on me and stopping me from getting well.
 I have tried herbal relaxants and herbal anti-depressants but to no avail.  My only option seems to be meditation but for the level of anxiety i suffer even this is not enough.  I would love to try reflexology or acupuncture but i can’t afford it and they don’t provide it on the NHS. I have also had many tests to see if there is a medical reason for why i am like i am and all seems within normal limits.
 I’ve tried to change all the stressful aspects of my life, like ending troublesome or destructive relationships, including my parents and a lot of family and sorted out money issues to help control stress levels, but it seems i have so much intense baggage that even now with my life being calm and peaceful i am a total nervous wreak, with the slightest stress being turned into a mountain.
  I have below zero confidence or self-esteem, don’t trust myself to make good decisions on people or my body to keep me safe in almost any situation through fear of losing control or not being able to run and hide.  Please do not tell me that i won’t lose control because i have and ended up peeing in my jeans out in public and drawing attention to myself through a big public display.  The most terrifying, embarrassing and confidence crushing experience ever and all in a bid to control it when in CBT.
 Now i look in the mirror and see an ugly, over weight slob who has no future to look forward to, nothing to offer anyone, lonely pathetic fool with no back bone what so ever and is even scared of my own shadow (literally).  I can’t even walk to the end of my road and the friends i did keep are getting so tired of me and my illness, backing out of meeting up all the time as i feel so ill all the time.  I don’t find enjoyment in most things i use to and i feel like I’m in a one man prison, all alone!
 SO please i just don’t know what else i can do to get myself back into the real world and start feeling better again.  What on earth can i do?  Anything from anybody will be much appreciated.  Thank-you for your time and reading this.