Hey!
I am from Greece so sorry for my english!
I am 21 years old, female. I have been over-thinking things since I was 3 years old. I've always had fears and obsessions: when I was a child (from 3 to 12 years old) I was afraid that burglars would break into our house at night, I was terrified about dying, I was afraid that my parents wouldn't pick me up from the kindergarten or that they would leave me forever, someone told me that saying "candy man" 5 times in front of the mirror I would summon the devil and he would kill me so for years I had been trying to hold me from thinking it and instead I'd been thinking it much more. I don't remember any similar fears/obsessions during middle school and high school years, but since the 12th grade I have been tortured by anxiety, hypochondria (which is my main issue -I'm occasionally afraid that I have cancer, hiv, leukemia and mental diseases) and doubts about reality (whether the world we are living in is real, if there is life after death, if I believe that the world is real but I am crazy and the real world is completely different than what I see)...I had been ok for some months but last week, my boyfriend's best friend was diagnosed with schizophrenia and since then I have been wondering all day and night If I have it or if I'm going to have it too! While trying to figure out if I'm sane or not I have recalled some moments of my life where my behavior was kinda weird e.g. many times that something unexpectedly good/weird/not normal happens to my life I question whether it really happened and I need to somehow confirm it...and another one: on our first date with my boyfriend, while we were kissing I was seeing/imagining patterns and colours like i was dreaming/like when you close your eyes after smoking pot (the only logical explanation I can give is that his kisses relaxed me so much that I was in a state between sleep and being awake). 
I have discussed some of those issues with my parents but they say I'm perfectly fine, cause everybody makes these thoughts/questions his sanity now and then and especially intelligent people, so it is something completely normal. They also say that people who don't have hobbies and do pretty much nothing in their everyday lives, have plenty of time to think about these things, while others that have more important problems/things to do don't (they are kinda right cause I don't have a hobby or do anything special during the day except going out with friends, eating, sleeping and spending time on the internet) +they believe that I am perfectly sane just because I doubt my sanity (they say that insane people have no idea about their problem and they think that the people around them are crazy and that nothing is wrong about themselves). 
What I would like to know is: Are there other people who feel the same way as I do? Is it my anxiety and hypochondria that causes all these questions or do I have indeed a serious problem? Do I need to go to a psychologist/psychiatrist or just having a more full everyday life would help to erase those thoughts?
Thank you so much for your time :)