I am a 26 year female who is gay. I fell in love with a 26 year old female who is straight and married and she fell in love with me regardless. we live approximately 7 hours apart and during the past year we were involved saw each other multiple times. when the relationship began and I realize I had fallen for her I was engaged to another women who I ended it with because I didn't think it was fair to her and it upset my new love interest. I wasn't ok with my new love interest being married and it went against all of my morals and beliefs but I proceeded anyways and followed my heart. the first time I saw her I fell a million times harder and she fell for me a million times harder. 
we began arguing more often because I didn't want to be apart and I didn't want her to remain married and still pursing me. so after a few months of struggling but still seeing each other and it being the same as it was the first time I stopped hinting I wanted her to give me 100% and asked her to leave him and be with me. she thought about it for a few months and later said no. a month and a half ago she came clean to her husband and she claims told him everything which includes saying things like she has never like she has about me for anyone else. 
during this time of arguing I had also lied to her about talking to my ex fiancé still. the conversations were innocent and I never had any sort of feelings for her after I fully gave myself to this new girl. I apologized and continue to apologize everyday because I know I made a mistake and another bad judgement (the first being getting involved with a married women). she knows that I feel bad deep down and still continues to say incredibly hurtful things about it and has brought me to tears numerous times. it bother her so much when my ex were would message me or call me and I wouldn't answer. I was with my ex fiancé for 12 years and during this time she also wasn't just my fiancé but my best friend and it was incredibly hard to let her go. 
because she is straight and has made a decision she is constantly telling me everytime I bring it up I'm trying to change her and she isn't gay. I have sent her a few things to read with people who had similar experiences to her to have her try and talk to me about it but anytime the subject of us gets brought up she gets extremely angry and threatens to say goodbye and leave my life. in fact she has said the subject is to never be discussed ever again or she is leaving for good. the last time we discussed the subject she had told me she is no longer in love with me and she stopped the moment it clicked that I was a female. that is by far the most painful and hurtful thing I have ever heard in my entire life. It makes me feel like complete crap that someone who was suppose to be in love with you could just stop in an instant and something they swore in the beginning of the relationship didn't matter (my ex fiancé was very insecure about it and wouldn't tell anyone what we truly were). it is incredibly difficult that now it does matter and it is incredibly hurtful for me that the love we once had that I believed our love transcended all boundaries. 
it is incredible hard because she is constantly yelling at me and getting angry for everything I do or say and being upset and being hurt by the entire situation. during this time I haven't been angry and when she is angry I try my hardest to just be nice and calm and I usually spiral into getting very upset and emotional. I don't know what to do anymore, we are talking now as friends but everytime I say something like oh ok or yea she gets angry, whenever I'm upset she gets angry, I don't talk about the most important thing in my life to me because she gets angry and won't talk about it. I'm at a loss of what to do because when we are talking as friends it does feel like sometimes there is more than that. we continue to text all the time and spend the night texting when she is at home with her husband. 
I just am so hurt that someone could just fall out of love in a second when I didn't feel like that was ever possible and it makes me feel like crap that when I'm trying my hardest to save things it could happen..