Transferring schools a be scary or intimidating for some children, but just because something is foreign doesn't necessarily make it bad. For other children a change is welcomed with open arms and often appreciated. I was one of those children. I have been to six different schools, in two separate counties. Each with their own pros and cons. Out of those six I can only truly remember three of them vividly, because those were the ones that affected me most. All my middle school years I was taught in the Christian private school system. 
    My sixth grade year was my first year at a small classical school. I was happy for change and I did accept it with open arms, but one thing scared me. That thing was rejection. Something that has always been a fear of mine. I can't help but fear that someone won't like me for me, or that someone will not want to hang around me because I don't fit their idea of someone worth being a friend with. When I arrived at school I was taken by how small it was, and how I only had a handful of kids in my grade. That year flashed by before I knew it. I had my crushes and the boys that I would flirt with here and there, but there was this one boy that I couldn't keep out of my mind. He had my heart and I could not manage to get it back from him. 
    Seventh grade flashed by as well and that boy was still the only one I thought about. No matter who I managed to crush on or think was cute at the time, I wanted this boy to be mine more than any of them. The saddest part was I never truly knew if wanted for me to be his. He was always talking about girls outside of our school but he never talked about me the way he did others. I can remember January of that year and how I had finally managed to make him like me somehow. We would pass notes in class and we even had our secret note passing technique. As a seventh grader I was in awe. I was just so enamored with the small things that I was never concerned with PDA or anything more than just sitting besides him in class. Then it all ended, and came crashing down on top of me, but I never gave up on my hope for the relationship to flourish again. 
    My eighth grade year was a very rough year. It all began with a school change, and a new group of people that I had to become friends with. The class took a trip to Washington, DC in September. That was full of many adventures and stories that I am not so proud of. For some reason I have always had a problem with one particular girl in my classes at school. I am not sure what started that, possibly jealousy or something of that sort. Well whatever it was should not have caused me to treat her the way that I did. I was wrong to do the things that I did to her, and I was wrong to tell this girl some of the things I did. I regret doing those things because there is a part of me that wonders if maybe things could have been different between us. After the DC trip I started to flirt with a red haired boy in my class, he was sweet and at the time he was the person that I was interested in. Soon after me and him had established our thing as boyfriend and girlfriend I began thinking about the boy I liked in seventh grade. No matter how many times I let my red haired crush hold my hand or give me a hug it still never compared to the feeling I got from passing notes with the boy I liked even more. Eventually the thing that me and the red haired boy had began to fade away, so we called it quits and moved on to other people. 
    At the end of that year my school held a senior night crawfish boil, and that's when I saw him. The boy that I hadn't seen in a whole year. The boy that I still got butterflies in my stomach when I heard his name. He was there and so was his friend. Sadly though he came to see a girl that he really liked at the time, and so I was put to the side. I had waited all that time in hopes of seeing him, and talking to him again. I wasn't going to let him slip through my fingers this time. 
    I got onto my email account and I sent him an email hoping that he still used the same email address from years back, and in hopes that he would still check it often. To my shock he did. We emailed back and forth for weeks and months. Eventually my parents got me a phone so we exchanged numbers and began texting. I talked to him more through texts then I think I had in seventh grade. We told each other everything and we gave advice to one another all the time. I would help him with his girl issues, while he assisted me with my guy issues. During those months I was happier than ever. 
    Summer soon ended and ninth grade year came faster than I had expected. I didn't mind though because as long as I had that boy to talk to and talk about things with there was nothing that I wasn't ready to take on. Except for when a brown haired cutie decided that he could just put his hand where ever he so choose. That was when I realized that I need someone that would defend me in that sort of situation. And this seventh grade crush came through for me. He texted the brown haired cutie and a few text messages later he was no longer an issue of mine anymore. The rest of ninth grade went by faster than any other year and before I knew it I found that trouble was around the corner for me. 
    I was so gullible back then and all I needed was a compliment or two then I was under your spell. A guy took advantage of that over the summer and used that to benefit himself. Then once he got what he wanted from me he threw me to the side, and had his friends do it as well. My seventh grade boy crush didn't take the news of what happened well and he decided that me and him probably shouldn't talk anymore. Or at least that's what I was told. So my ninth grade summer and beginning of sophomore year, the time I needed someone to talk to more than any other time he wasn't there for me. During the time that I was facing the consequences of my actions he began dating the girl that I had treated terribly. At first I was angry because he had totally left me alone. But I guess relationships only last a while. I still love him, but I know that he is in a relationship and that's something that is extremely hard for me to deal with.