I am a sixteen year old girl.  I don't drink, I don't do drugs, don't smoke, I eat well & exercise. I get along with people okay but I don't really have many close friends, maybe two or three. I wouldn't describe myself as a lonely person, though. I study relatively hard and get good grades at school. 
 When I was thirteen I began cutting myself and most of my fourteenth year was a huge downward spiral: I am almost certain that I suffered from some form of depression in that year but have never been diagnosed as my parents just shook it off, saying I was too young. I haven't harmed myself since I was fourteen though. However, lately (past three or four months) I've been feeling really down and I have noticed that I have been feeling much the same way as I did when I was fourteen. 
 Lately I've been crying at random intervals; the tiniest things can make me break down. I constantly feel at the point of a breakdown, and I feel stressed all the time. 
 I usually just feel in a constant down-in-the-dumps kind of mood, but sometimes I start to listen to words in my head (not voices or delusions, I am aware that they are my own thoughts in my mind) saying things like "you are a failure, no one loves you, you deserve to die, you are unbelievably stupid, you are worthless". This could pop up at any time, for example in conversation with peers and I say something slightly awkward that everyone else shakes off but then those thoughts come into my head and I can't fight them off, as hard as I try. It's when this happens that marks the beginning of a big breakdown. 
 I sometimes have trouble sleeping as well. Also, I used to write poetry/prose almost every day, or at least in my journal, but I haven't written anything for a good six months. I just can't seem to put my feelings on paper. 
 I'm scared to tell my parents about how I feel because they are both going through a lot at the moment. I know that they will see me as a disappointment if I tell them because I remember how they acted when I was fourteen. I don't want to put them through that again, but at the same time I'm scared that I'm going to get worse. Do I have depression? Is there anything I can do on my own to shake it off without letting my parents know?