This is a very hard question for me to ask or to even talk about because I'm such a private person. But this has been bothering me for years and I just woke up again from a sound sleep, jumping out of bed and screaming for absolutly no reason. Not the first time, infact it's been going on since as far back as I can remember.
 I'm in the metal health field but can't seem to get outside of myself on this one and see what everyone esle seems to see. I've been in therapy since my sister ended her life many years back. I recently took a few years break and returned about two months ago because of some health problems which ended up with my having to leave my job which I reallt loved and having alot of time on my hands I'm not used to having.
 Okay, enough procratinating. For as far back as I can remember I've had a fear of going to sleep. Awful nightmares that leave me confused at LEAST twice a week even still nearing my 30's. I can't sleep in the dark because I feel it leaves me defensless against something happening(I have no idea what). It seems I can't get myself into a deep enough sleep, like I'm always prepared to jump and run..always. And after 24 years of this I'm exhausted.
My husband jokes that he won't get up to use the bathroon in the middle of the night because even a squeek in a floor board will jolt me awake and into a panic. 
 Now onto the really hard stuff to say...this is hard. I knew about sex very early on before I asked my mother about it. But when I finally asked her I covered my ears and couldn't stand to listen(normal for a kid right?, I thought so).
In my early years up until a jounior in HS I avoided boys but suddenly after my first boyfriend pressured me into sex, really pressured me, I became promiscuise after we broke up. I was promiscouse until I was about 22. I enjoyed sex. I got married at 26 and soon after started having health problems. The one that most concerns me is my abdominal pain. When it started I soon lost ALL sexual drive and had no interest in it at all. I became embarassed to watch any TV or even movies that had any sexual conintation in it with my husband.
Every time he rests against my abdomen even lightly, the pain shoots up. Every time he comes close to my vaginal area I feel so uncomfortable and the pain also starts.
 Here's my problem. My first therapist continuely asked me if I had been abused. I always said "NO way". No matter what I said she would always imply that she thought so but was careful not to force the issue. A few friends have asked me, even a shoddy psychic I went to see as a gag with some girlfriends asked me. 
Cut to two months ago when it had been years since thinking about what these people thought...the FIRST appointment I had with this therapist, the very FIRST and she asked me if I had been abused as a child. I asked her why she asked and she said because everything I was explaining was indicitive of a sexual abuse victim. 
 In all honesty, I have NEVER seen this in myself but everyone around me has so clearly. As if I have a sticker on my forehead that says so. I'm so embarassed and humiliated that this is so obvious. I keep saying I don't remember anything. i don't even remember further back past the age of 6 or so except for a few occurances. I wouldn't even know anyone who would do this to me. I love my family so much and couldn't imgaine that.
And that's what I've been saying for 10 years...if this has happened I don't want to know who. I want to keep loving everyone I love and not have any bad feeling twords anyone. 
The therapist agrees that there is no point in trying to recall these kinds of past memories to remember who what or where.  
 The problem???  I can't have sex with my husband and he's so patient but I feel so horrible. These health problems, the therapist thinks they're real but that past trauma is exasterbating them. 
 She explained it like this...sexual abuse to a child is beyond painful..torcherous. The pain I'm feeling now has flickered at latent memories and physical sensations I don't remember or have blocked and thus in my mind without realizing it I'm cutting off the only thing I can...sex, to try and stop the physical pain. I'm suddenly embarassed by sex because I'm having past feeling I can't pinpoint arise that remind me of the shame and embarassment.
Makes sense.
 How have I not seen this...how am I in the mental health field and not seen this. And what do I do? I'm almost 30 and feel like a scared little girl for reasons I can't understand. Also, I'm tired of jumping from my sleep ready to run. I was on ambient and klonopin about 5 years ago. Should I maybe go back on them?