I have been married nearly 20 years and have for several years now been concerned that something is wrong with my SO.  Things were good/normal for many years.  There were outbursts of yelling and/or breaking things but they were few and far between.  While they didn't seem to be reflective of the actual situation they did seem to occur during times of stress, so I just chalked it up to that.
 Now for several years things have cyclically gotten worse.  There are weeks or months of good, normal times and then the same of just walking on eggshells. What kind of mood are we in, what is going to start a rant, etc.
 I'm to the point that I don't know if I want to stick around but since we still have children at home, I am weighing my options carefully.
 Of note to add to my confusion:  I am referring to my husband and it seems there are far more females who are bpd, he holds a good job and has been there for over ten years.
 But on the bpd side:
 He rages for no apparent reason (or at least disproportionally to the situation)
He goes through good phases and then phases where everything you do is wrong
He never takes responsibility...when he does something it's because I somehow made him
He doesn't take criticism well.  Always turns it around.
He finds something wrong or annoying about every person he meets
He gaslights everything.  
He projects on me and occasionally at others
 He is also (and maybe more so) a bit narcissistic.  He spends hours getting ready, looks in every mirror he goes by, has to be the center of attention. He exaggerates stories sometimes to the point that I don't even recognize them when he's telling them. History is grander than it actually was. People always copy him.  He's taken credit for things I've done and others have done.  He always discount others contributions and overstates his own.
 He is very black and white about things.  He never sees any gray.  And, honestly I've begun to wonder if it's me who's crazy.  I've tried now for years to make him happy and make things even keel but it doesn't really seem to matter what I do or don't do.  
 Against bpd:
 He is not clingy.  In fact he's told me if I left he wouldn't ever come after me.  Which, of course, left me confused, hurt and then turned afraid that I would be alone (although this is sounding better and better).
He does not abuse any substances
He is not suicidal or hurt himself
 He will never go to therapy so I will never get a formal diagnosis but would like to know if it sounds like I may be dealing with some level of bpd and whether I can improve the situation.  
 I want to do what's right by him, my children and myself but I feel like I'm turning into a shell of a person and he's made me believe that I am not capable of functioning in the world.  My biggest fear is the damage I may have done or will do to my children if I stay or go.
 Thanks for all insight...and please let me know if there's any other info that would be helpful to know.