Some of you have read my past journals about my relationship issues, including what transpired last summer with my (then) 14 yo and her step-father.  I found out tonight that he has started his sexual harrassment towards here again.  Apparently it's been going on for a few months, but she was scared to tell me.  When she finally opened up to me tonight I assured her that I am trying my very best to find a job and get us out of here.  I also told her that if she feels it's to the point where she is so uncomfortable that she wants to get out NOW, all she has to do is tell me.  I'll pack my kids up while he's at work and take them to the Women's shelter if I have to.  I am now more determined than ever to get my kids out of here.  I am sick to my stomach and can't decide if I want to throw up or beat the sh!t out of him or both.  Thus far, according to her it's just been sexually based comments about her clothes or her body, uncomfortable touching, like the other day he was "hugging" her from a sitting position and rested his head on her chest.  I'm trying really hard not to over react so I can stay level-headed.
 I have to determine what the best course of action is going to be.  Without a job this makes it so hard.  I'm debating on calling the social worker from the case last summer and seeing if she can have him removed from the house, then having the legal advisor of the women's shelter help me get a restraining order.  I can then apply for TANF which means he will be forced to pay support (if he's not arrested, which is unlikely since there is no "proof").  With TANF I will be more apt to get child care assistance so I CAN work when I do get a job offer.  If I go this route it's going to be very rough and I'm going to have to keep a LOT of faith that God will provide for us.  
 If anyone has ANY advice or suggestions on how I should handle this or other avenues I can take, places I can go to for assistances, whatever, PLEASE PLEASE let me know.  I have to be delicate about this because there ARE guns in our house and God only knows what kind of psycho sh!t he might pull if I set him off.  Depending on the route I choose, I may call my brother and see if he can be here when it all goes down...and I will make sure the guns are hidden or removed FIRST.  
 We've been enduring verbal/emotional abuse for years.  There has been some physical sporadically over the years.  This sexual abuse against my daughter started up about the time she was 13 1/2.  He's also had a major porn "addiction".  He's one of those people that has to play the victim regardless of the situation. He turns EVERYTHING around to be everyone else fault except his.  The only time he admits fault is when he feels it's necessary to restore the neat little order of him control things.  
 With 5 kids this is NOT going to be easy, but I am d@mned determined to make it happen!