I read lots about abusive mothers.  Daughters who have to deal with mothers who are heartless, critical, alcoholic, verbally mean, and on and on.  It's horrible.  But what about the mothers who have daughters like this?  We do exist, you know.  But you don't see posts about us much.  My daughter is one of these daughters.  I read these posts and I wish I had a daughter like the ones who post on here.  These girls who cry out because they have such dysfunctional mothers seem to be so productive, educated, trying, and obviously in pain.  My daughter is now 35 and she has been in jail twice, has been a drug addict...now supposedly sober......has had a child at 20 who she could not support and left with a bunch of people to take care of...until he finally was taken away from her.  I raised my daughter myself until she was 7.  Her father moved away, and never paid a dime to me for her.  I worked my tail off to make sure she had everything.  Then I remarried when she was 7.  He was a wonderful step dad to her and gave her everything.  Camps, great schools, clothes, toys, vacations just for her.  She was hell to raise.  Always in trouble.  NOt very empathic.  NO conscience to speak of.  Anyway....she is like from another planet.  No one would believe she is my daughter.  Her friends and culture are as far away from mine as the North Pole.  She dropped out of high school.....my family is all educated.  She has all friends with jail records.  My family is all successful and productive.  My family has No alcohol, no abuse, no crime....just normal old "baggage."   Why did she turn out like this?  Well, they say you can't pick your parents.  But you also can't pick your children or predict how they will turn out.  Unlike extreme religious people, or some rigid psychology academics believe, this is not anyone's fault, and not from a lack of love, good environment, or abandonment.    And please, whoever responds to this don't bother responding if it's going to be  "go to church".....and spare me the god stuff.  This is about personality disorders folks and no church in the world is going to change that or kiss it and make it better.  The thing is,  a parent with a child like this has no outlet.  You can't divorce your child.  You are in for a life of pain.  And a child with an emotionally stunted mother is just as bad off.  I feel very bereft about this.  I know how painful these girls feel because I, too,  am missing out now on so much joy I should be having, and could be having.  I have no friends with daughters like this.    I am never going to know what the "joy" is all about in having children.    To all the girls out there who post on here about their awful moms.......I am so sorry for you.  My advice is don't let it spoil your good nature.  You are not to blame.  You must protect yourself and not expect too much.  For any moms out there with daughters like mine..........I say the same.  If you need them out of your life.......no one blames you...at all.  Try to find a surrogate.  You know, most kids will do that on their own   when they are missing a parental figure in their life.  They will find one....to replace them ...somewhere.  It may be the mailman........but they will look for a mom, or a dad, somewhere, like they have a dousing stick for a mentor.  So, if you are an adult child....with a lousy parent, you may benefit from that, too.  Maybe Big Sisters of America....maybe volunteering somewhere where there are mothers who lost children and would love to befriend a young girl.    There is a place out there for you where you can "get out of your own head and give to others" that will make you feel better and not so alone.  Seek and ye shall find.......and remember:  Don't ever UNDERestimate the power you have to change yourself..........and don't ever OVERestimate the power you have to change others.  I feel sorry for me...........and I feel sorry for you.  Best of the best to all of the readers on here who are hurting.