I am 50 years old virgin, got my ultra sound done very recently for the whole abdomen as adviced by doctor on account of having missed my period for the first time. I had my last period on 5th of July and its one month 13 days now. It was found in the report that my uterus is enlarged in size and anteverted. It meausres 44.2X58.5X95.8 mm. Mixed echogenic fibroid seen on anterior wall measuring 35.6X37.0 mm. The endometrial echoes are normal. left ovary is enlarged and cystic measuring 26.3X26.7 mm. There is no evidence of free fluid in pouch of Douglas. Righ pvary measures 29.7X17.5 mm. Right ovary is normal in size and show uniform parenchymal echogenecity and sooth lines.My gynaecologist gave me a progetrone tablet called 'cycloreg' to be taken for 3 days , two times a day. I am worried. Have i attained my menopause. Please can you throw reflections on the cyst and fibroid. and what am i suppose to do nest. Will i get my next periods without taking any progestrobe tablet as i dont want to be dependednt on medicine..Write a reply...Dear Kathryn, i am sending this message to you for ur opinion. I got my ultra sound done for the whole abdomen as adviced by doctor on account of periods. It was found in the report that my uterus is enlarged in size and anteverted. Mixed echogenic fibroid seen on anterior wall measuring 3.7 cms. The endometrial echoes are normal. left ovaary is enlarged and cystic and no evidence of frewe fluid in pouch of Douglas. my gynae cologist gave me a progetrone tablet called 'cycloreg' to be taken for 3 days , two times a day. She said that i would get my periods and the cyst will disappear. She says because egg could not mature there fore turned into cyst and the reason why i had no periods. She say after this medicine we will wait and see what happens to the next period whethr it comes on time or not to decide further course of action. Can you please see onvibrations if its ok to have the pregestrone tablet which is an external support. she also said the we need not do anything about fibroid as it sometimes disappears on its own. She doesnt confirm that its a premanopausal problem. I FEEL ALL THIS HAS HAPPENED BECAUSE OF MY RIGHT SWADISHTHAN PROBLEM. please let me know what you have to say?Write a reply...