Hi,
I am suffering from my loved one's illness. I feel guilty and I am not sure why I haven't gotten divorced and stop talking to him and the other people. I think I love them. Fear of loneliness and a commitment to be honorable see the sick in bad days, are at both ends and middle road is hard to find. In otherwords, life is not fun because these people are always ill and extremely hard to deal with, I am constantly getting evicted and have major problems feeling anger which seem to transgress from the Borderline personality disorders my partner suffers from or his seizures. He was hospitalized and went into numerous seizures and each doctor we see gives him something and nothing is working. He acts in rages and gets upset over name calling which he starts. It is so upsetting that I cry alot because "what are my neighbors thinking?" I know mental illness is everywhere but he is a true nutjob, I am so tired of these unpredicable episodes. Calling bad cops are a waste of time and he is still really sick. Is there any advice to manage his care from a far. I cannot live like this anymore, I can't relax, I thought he would improve but I am finding he is truely getting worse and I am feeling sick from the constant burden of trying to figure all of this out. I have had enough but he calls my friends, jobs, everyone I could get help from and lies to them creating a really worse story. He twists all of our arguements into true lies. I finally got him to the emergency room and he got on lexapro which was working but now he is worse again. Usually, he feels bad for others but he says he feels bad about his self, and this is a change. I hate him right now but just writing this e-mail makes me feel better because I am starting to see there may be a way out because he is a sick man. He refuses to go to counseling and the hospital never has an appointment. My husband is getting worse, throwing things and making our home which we are losing a really bad place for our neighbors and myself. Is there any advice? I've been in and out of the hospital with him 3-6 times within a year. It seems there is no cure. And he has PTSD from the war. It looks like his eyes are dialated again which makes me feel he could be taking something behind my back another VA (bad) prescription, or is seizing again. We are under stress, but the day to day life activities of functioning in NYC seem to be too much for him. HE is driving me to have anxiety and I started taking something which I don't need makes me forgetful and slow. I am afraid to leave him alone but every saturday night turns into a fight. The medications are making him less careful slamming things and he is not careful if I get hurt, so I think he is become like a monster more and more. Luckily I am not hurt but can this medication escalate his moods so that he hurts someone or himself, he may be taking too much and his behavior mood changes are getting worse. This e-mail is probably a waste of time because there are no quick fixes and that's really what people need.
--Tired