I was on Effexor for 7 years and was finally able to come out of it about 1.5 months ago. I tried stopping it before by taking it every other day, but the dizziness and other withdrawal effects were so terrible, I had to stay on the minimum doze for about 2 years. 
After doing some research and pressuring my doctor to find a way out, he finally prescribed a 10x10 tapering kit (very effective!) where a lab customizes the dose for you and remove 10% of it every week for 10 weeks. The last weeks were the most difficult; I felt super emotional and very tired. 
The first month without the medication was REALLY hard. I had never felt so tired in my life and became extremely emotional!  Fortunately I have a very good naturopath and a great psychologist that have helped me a lot. The naturopath did a hormone test and found my adrenals working “overtime” (that explained my tiredness) and prescribed a few supplements: St John’s worth, fish oil, B6, skullcap and 5HTP. Slowly, I’ve been regaining my strength and no longer feel as tired. 
However, I’m still quite sensitive and have short periods of sadness that take me back me of my former episodes of depression. Both my doctor and my therapist often remind me that these episodes are much shorter and that is not the same. However, my poor boyfriend (who’s been a sweetheart during this process) often pays for my moments of anger and my extreme sensitiveness, and I’m often catch myself afraid of pushing him away from me (the relationship is sort of new).  My therapist says that the withdrawal effects are about 3 months, but that everyone is different, so this may vary. Also, I don’t want to blame everything I do on my withdrawal process and try to keep myself in check as much as I can.  I try to keep myself active, by running for short periods of time, dancing, meditating or doing yoga, but the fear of being depressed again or losing my relationship still haunts me. I’ve been exploring other forums, but most of them focus on the reactions while getting off the medication and don’t say much about what happens after you are totally off. Has anyone had similar experiences? Thanks.