Hi
 I married 1.5 yrs ago.
After marriage I left my job, career, home and went abroad as he was having a job there.
Before marriage we had a long distance relationship and were met on a matrimonial site.
After marriage I got to know he is a very different kind of person.
He doesn't respects any one, he has a very proudly behaviour that he is earning so much and is educated.
After marriage he started making me feel that I am dependent on him, he never appreciated me in any terms, his parents never liked me as they expected a lot of dowry which my family should give ( bfr marriage my mother made it clear she can't give dowry at that time there family behaved like they only want girl which their son liked and no issue of money).
With time passed fights between me & my husband increased on sex, on maintainence, on lifestyle, on choices etc and as I want dependent on him I have to listen to him.
On every time if I ask for my basic needs also he used to call my mother and say your daughter is demanding a slipper, a lip gloss etc.
My mother in law always supported his son saying to me that its female who have to adjust in new family.
Now my husband has started saying he wasn't interested in this marriage and it was me who emotionally black mailed him.
Whenever we come in contact with my in laws we have fights and issues, my husband blindly trust on them and even reveals our bedroom secrets in front of her.
In July' 15 I decided to stay back in my home country and don't go with him and have started searching and applying for jobs.
My family is too much worried as my husband doesn't even talks properly with my mother. His family has cut off all connections with me saying its a husband- wife issue and no one will interfere in that.
He doesn't have any regrets of fighting and insulting me in front of any body.
 He is also a sexting addictive so there was no sex bond created between us which binds this relation.
He always claimed he never enjoyed me as the rhythm which he can make with his hand cannot be made directly.
He also claims he has been practicing musturbation since Hus age 16 so he has the capability of controlling his ejaculation but that frustrates me as he isn't able to ejaculate even a single time in my vagina which makes me feel good.
 Pls advice m I right to take the decision of living seperate