For al long time i haven't been myself. I have been quiet and lonely and really sad. In primary school i was bullied and because of that i have found high school really difficult. The bullying wasnt really terrible but it effected me so much more than i realise. I just want to cry all of the time and i just feel so sad and lonely. i dont have many friends at school and the ones i have are horrible to me. But i have lots of best friends out of school at my church. However i dont see them very often and things have changed so much that we dont really know each other properly anymore so its not the same. So i dont really have any proper friends anymore. All this and stress form exams and stuff going on at home has really been getting me down but even when i have had a really good day and things are looking up i still want to cry, but not for any reason really. I dont like the way i look and i have an unusual name that everyone teases me about. I could never get a boyfriend in a million years either and my social life is very nearly non- existent. And when my mom caught me crying and i said i was like that all the time she said she was a bit worried about me cause i might have depression. She forgot all about it but its stuck with me. But i thought that maybe i just wanted something to be wrong with me so that it wasnt just me, so i told myself i didnt have it and that it was just in my mind. But one time my parents were out and i looked on the internet a i took an online test thing that asked me ten questions and i had to answer them truthfuly and i did. You have to answer Yes or No and i answered 7 questions Yes and it said i needed to seek medical advice. But i didnt really believe it so i searched for more and i did others but they all came out the same so i thought maybe i did have it. I wanted to tell my mom but i couldnt, i dont know why but i just couldnt. And then i was going to tell my friend as we have been opening up to each other about our problems but i couldnt tell her either. I dont know what to do. I just want to stop being so sad and tired and lonely. But i dont want to have something wrong with me, i just want to be able to get on with my life finish high school and get on with my life, but then what if im still going to be like this then, what if the future isnt going to be better? im just really confused and i just want to know the truth about it