My bf, although he hasn't been properly diagnosed, has ALL of the 9 criteria for BPD. Severe abandonment issues, anger, rage, black and white thinking, idealization and devaluation, self-mutilation/suicidal tendencies, disassociation, feelings of emptiness, identity issues, short-lived jobs and relationships, and a nasty 4-year painkiller addiction.
 All of these issues came to a head when he and i began our relationship. Toward the end there was verbal and even indirect physical abuse (he hurt me while trying to wrestle me off of him in an attempt to get him to stop hurting himself and even choked me at one point), but the last blow out we had woke him up i think, hurting me wasn't his intention, i know... Anyway, he checked himself into rehab immediately after that last incident and is now clean for the 1st time in 4 years and is talking rationally about his black and white thinking, abandonment issues, lack of control over his emotions, etc. He even took responsibility, admitting he is ill, for everything that he had previously blamed me for provoking, etc., and is going away to a psych/spiritual/rehab retreat for the next couple of months and claims to want to follow that up with intensive counseling and treatment.
 He told me he struggles with irrational emotions, still, of course, but is now more self-aware (although in the very beginning phases), and although he wants to either hate me or smother me, he knows he loves and wants to be with me the right way, and ultimately the right thing to do is to be single while we both heal, but remain friends during the process and resume the relationship in a couple/few months...
 I see him working so hard and it makes me want to stay, I want to more than anything right now, but I'm not sure what I'm getting myself into. Is he more prone to up and leave me out of the blue one day? Does he really love me (he claims what we had wasn't really love although we have a beautiful chemistry and potential, but a manifestation of his tendencies, and he wants to do things slowly and the right way now)? Can we have a healthy, loving, long-lasting relationship? I'm never going to allow my boundaries to be crossed again, and won't tolerate behaviors of the past, but I wonder if this relationship can ever be genuine and/or fulfill my needs for true emotionally mature intimacy. And can he ever love me for, or even see who I truly am? He claims he does amongst all of the crying in his head, but it's currently hard to sort through all of that.
 Any advice? Thanks in advance, I know this is kinda heavy...