Is my niece being molested by her dad. I always keep my niece who is about to be 4 years old every other weekend. i noticed on her last visit she was saying things like(shake your naked booty) and she would shake her butt. i havfe a 3 year old daughter that she play with and they thought it was funny. at first i did too. then, later I  was watching tv in my living room and my bedroom is off of that room. i could her the kids playing in my room. i all of a sudden her my niece jumping on my bed saying( shake my naked butt, look at my naked booty) then my 3 year old yelled ill thats nasty. so i got up to see what was goin on and she was jumping up on the bed bending over pulling her panties down showing her butt to my 3 year old makeing the above comments.i told her to stop that that was in apporperiate behavior. I informed her parents they could believe it and said they would talk to her. i also talked to my 3 year old. so the next time i was to keep her i couldn't do to me having to go out o town. that sunday my nieca nd her dad camre over for dinner. after a while my niece and my daughter were back in my room playing while us adults watch a movie. i over heard my niece tellmy daughter to clos the door. at first i didn't think much of it. then i thought  let me open this door . they could be messing in my things. as i went to the door i hear me niece say (touch it right there, put your finger there.) I pushed the door open to find my niece had took all her clothes off and was laying on the bed with her legs cocked wide open and my daughter standing there as if she was about to touch her. i immediatley took action. her father came in the room and said what happened. i told him and he stood in the doorway for like 10min in a daze. i asked him whats wrong with you he said. i don't even know what to say. he never said anything to his daughter like that not good what you did or anything. i was very upset. i took both girls to the side and talked to them. explain the best way i could to a 3 and 4 year old that . that behavior is inapporperiate and i began to ask them about good touches and bad touches. something that i have practice with them since they were two years old. my daughter said no to all my question. but my niece shooked me  when she stated my dad touches me all the time. i didn't know what to think . i have know her father for yearss, but that didn't stop me from contiuing my question. at first she didn,t want to tell me. she dropped her head and began shaking it back and forth as if she couldn't tell me. when i explain she could trust me andi would protect her. she went on to tell me that he touches her with his finger and stating i don't like it when daddy touches me andshe compared it to him touching her mom. say he touches mommy too. he uses his mouth on mommy booty. she also stated that he makes her touch him and i asked where and she pointed to her cooty area. after i had a more intense talk with her explaining it not right for daddy to do that and i gonna help you. i didn't know what to do my emotion wre everywhere. what i did was tell her dad that i talk to ther girl about good touches and bad touches and ex[lain that she said she see him touching her mom. he just thanked me. this situation worried me so the next day i decided that my nieces mother and father come over so we can talk about what happened and i felt the need to inform them of what i knew and that its a problem that needs to be delt with. so i called my nieces mom and after two days i got her. i asked if my nieces father had told her what happened on sunday and she said no , he didn't tell me anything. i thought that was strange he didnt tell her someting so important and he never said anything to his daughter about her action being wrong or inapporperitate. so im wonder if my niece is being molested by her dad.