I have borderline personality disorder, bipolar I disorder, anxiety disorder, and sleep disorder. I've recently been diagnosed with fatty liver disease and hemangioma. I'm on a strict healthy diet with absolutely no alcohol, no soda, no sugar, etc. 
 I want to stop taking all my medications - lamictal 200mg, trazodone 50-100mg, birth control. I can't stop taking xanax because of panic attacks. I don't take it daily and am not addicted. 
 My doctor said that my liver disease cannot be reversed but I read online that it is possible with a healthy diet and life style to reverse or at least shrink some of the fat. So I want to eliminate all medications, chemicals, everything I can so I have a chance at reversing or improving my condition.
 I've been on and off medication for over a decade. I really like lamictal. I feel "normal" on it. I've been taking it for 4 years. At one time I increased it to 250mg but decided to go back to 200mg, which has worked great. I'm going to start lowering it soon, first to 150mg... and hopefully can go completely med-free. If it doesnt work out, then maybe I can at least just stay on 100mg.
 Last time I was off my medication, I ended up in a forced stay in the psychiatric ward due to self harm. BUT at the time I was drinking very, very heavy and was in a bad abusive relationship. I'm in a much better place in my life right now. I'm single and FINE with being single! I have stress and depression due to my financial situation and have been in bad health this past year from ear infections (twice), sprained ankle, pulled muscle abdomen hip and lower back, stomach bleeding gastritis, and liver disease. I don't feel suicidal and haven't done any self harm in many months.
 I'm going to start therapy again soon. I've been to 12 doctor appointments in the past three weeks from the gyno ER to gyno to primary to physical medicine to primary to ER to primary and tomorrow will be the gastroenterologist. Then I have to do physical therapy twice a week for my pulled muscle and muscle spasms or whatever is going on with my body! I'm scheduling my DBT individual and group as soon as I get my physical therapy appointments scheduled in.
 I have to take pain pills right now. I'm not taking them everyday. I've just been laying around in bed. but I have to start working tomorrow and will have to take them. I'm hoping that physical therapy will work quickly and my gastritis will heal so I don't have to take any pain medication.
 So.. I just wanted to know if anyone has had any luck being off their medication for a long period of time? Were you able to completely stop your meds? If so, do you go to therapy? DBT therapy, group and individual? Do you take vitamins, suppliments, herbs? Yoga? Alternative medicine and treatment? Acupuncture? 
 I'm meeting with my psychiatrist soon and will talk to him about lowering my dosage and discuss possibly stopping all medication, with exception of xanax, as needed. I've been told by different psychiatrists and psychologists that I have to be on medication the rest of my life and continue therapy.
 I'd rather risk dealing with my mental illness issues than to risk damaging my liver any more. I'm really scared that I'm going to harm my liver. And yes, I know it takes time for this to happen but I am only 31 years old and have liver disease. I'm not overweight. I've been eating healthy (with exception of milk and soda) and was exercising regularly until I hurt my ankle and other pulled muscle and gastritis issues the past 6 months. I did drink heavy, but have completely stopped and will never drink again. I know I shouldn't have been drinking at all with my medication and mental condition. Facing the consequences now..
 I'm trying to remain hopeful that I can go med-free and be able to manage my depression. I don't mind my mania except for insomnia issues. Depression and suicidal ideation has always been a problem.