Hey im an 18 year  old male a freshman in college 6' 1" 155 lb. i drink on the weekends and smoke weed some as well. So i made some bad decisions during my first semester and begging of second by taking some mdma. The first time i took an E pill and was fine, the next weekend the second time i took about .25-.3g of "Molly" mdma powder form and felt great but the next morning when i walked outside i felt wierd and it was the first time i felt the pressure in the left part of my forehead like some took an ice cream scoop out of it. After a couple of days it got better and i waited a month and then i decided to take some "Molly" again after i had a mixed drink of alcohol, this time i took about .3g and waited about 15-20 minutes then took 2 more dabs of i would guess about .05-.075g each. I waited and took about 4 big bongs rips out of my huge bong and i felt the molly hit me but then i started freaking out because i cant smoke a lot or i get really anxious or panic attacks in some cases. I didnt have a good roll and i just felt bad. I ended up not going out with my friends because my body was too hot and i didnt want anything bad to happen to me while i was out so i just chilled in some gym shorts and no shirt and drank some water.  The next day i didnt feel to bad so i went out with my friends and got really drunk and my head was spinning and i stayed in throwing up. The next morning when i woke up i felt really really bad and the feeling in the left part of my forehead was there and i could tell something was off. When i walked outside i think i had a case of some derealization because everything seemed overwhelming and scary almost. I couldnt figure out what was wrong and i was super anxious and depressed. The whole week and a half i felt awful and my forehead had that wierd feeling and it felt as though my head looked wierd in shape but when i looked in the mirror of course it was normal. Then one night i felt really wierd and terrible and was unxeplainbly crying and i called my mom to come get me and she took me home for the weekend and i got some rest and 5 htp and went back to school monday. I felt a little better with the 5 htp i wasnt depressed. Its been a little over 2 months since i took the mdma and i still have that pressure in the left part of my forehead and it still kind of feels like my forehead looks wierd. Ive done a lot of research on this stuff and a lot of people say that it is the anxiety that is causing it because its still there but i dont think so because i feel fine now and not anxious but the feeling is still there. The only other thing i could think is that my nerves are burnt out and in the re wiring process which is why my forehead hurts. I really wish it would just go away its been really anooying and it makes it really hard to concentrate on things. I still drink on the weekends but i havent smoked much and ive been trying to keep that to a mininmum. Ive been eating healthy and working out and i feel that the feeling comes and goes away like ill feel better for a couple of weeks and then it will kind of be worse for a couple weeks but i can always tell that it is there even when im feeling better. Im just hoping that this isnt "Permanent" and that it will go away some time soon as long as i don't take any more mdma, which trust me i definetely wont do that! Does anyone know what this is and how long it will take for me to be back to normal? Thank You for comments they are much appreciated!