I have a very complicated situation that I am finding difficult to sort through.  I have been unhappily married for over ten years.  My husband is significantly older than I am and was a person in a position of authority over me at a very young age.  He made what were initially unwanted advances toward me when I was only 13 and because my home life was unstable (emotionally abusive probably BPD mother), I didn't tell anyone and I substituted my feelings of him taking advantage of me and turned them into him loving me.  He says he did love me and the fact that we are now married should be proof of that.  I think this is probably true, but I still find it hard to move on given the way it happened.  I am still very angry at him for what he did to me and I bring it up to him all the time, usually when we're arguing.  He is a very opinionated person and is what I interpret (he disagrees) as very critical and controlling.  I find it hard to accept criticism from him (it is always his way is the right way) and often lash out at him because I feel intimidated by his opinionated nature.  With him, I go between being passive and just trying to placate him and being aggressive and angry with him.  I asked him to go to marriage counseling, which he half-heartedly participated in.  He has taken it upon himself to diagnose me with Emotionally Unstable Personality disorder and says it is not a "marriage counseling" issue.  I don't agree with his diagnosis, but I can see a few criteria that apply.  The traits that fit only fit with him and I do not exhibit these traits with other people in my life.  I have many friends, I am very close to my family and I am a high functioning person.  No one else in my life would even remotely feel that this diagnosis applies, and they were very puzzled when I even tried to ask if they thought I might fit the description.  I feel like I am being manipulated by my husband and resent him on many levels; however, if I do have EUPD then I do not want to be blinded by my anger at him.  If I need help, I want to get it.  Do I need help?