I had sex on December 6th and again the 28th with my boyfriend. I wanted to be sure I didn't get a UTI, so I went home not long afterward both times and it took about an hour to get home. They were his first two times, but my 3rd and 4th. When I got home on the 28th I immediately went to the bathroom. I noticed these things that looked like a ball of spaghetti. It looked like sperm, they moved or appeared to at least, but I only saw them on the bottom of the water due to the light making a shadow appear. I don't think it was sperm, but idk, could it have been? they're like microscopic cells, so idk. My boobs are kinda sore, I've had cloudy urine. recently the "sperm" stopped and it's been on and off in the recent past, I've been going to the bathroom a lot more. I started crying tonight when I was talking to one of my friends and he had some pretty bad news, but I normally wouldn't have cried over it!?!? I cried in a couple movies I wouldn't have normally cried in a few days ago. I've taken 3 pregnancy tests and they were all negative...I know it's too early to test if anything happened on the 28th...so, is it too early to have these symptoms due to pregnancy or are my tests wrong? Everyone I've talked to and read reviews on has said the test was really accurate. I don't want my parents knowing until I know for sure, so I have a friend that can get them for me and I just pay her back for it. I also had a period on Dec. 19th, but it only lasted like 3-4 days when they usually last 6-7 days at least. I haven't had one for January yet, but it's not time yet...but I have had some brown "blood" or discharge one and it had a very little bit of blood in it...any ideas on what this could be? it wasn't much blood at all. it lasted about a day if that. I've also experienced some cramping...I have one test left from the last time she got me some tests, so I'm going to wait and see if I don't have my period for January...what are your opinions, comments, or advice/input? keep it positive please! She got me four tests and 3 turned out negative.