Is this Schizophrenia?
 It tells me: 
 I'm worthless 
Dead to the world 
Nothing 
Nobody 
A failure 
Selfish 
Bad 
A burden 
Ugly 
Guilty 
A poor excuse for a gf/daughter/sister etc 
Everything is my fault 
I should kill myself 
I don't deserve happiness, or I'll get it if I do...so and so 
I should hurt myself 
I should punish myself 
Nobody likes me 
Everyone thinks bad of me 
Everyone is judging me 
If I don't do things it says then the big black cloud will get me, kill me, swallow me up and take over my body and ruin my life
I should do bad things 
I should hide myself in case I am recognised as then no-one will find me
I shouldn't go outside 
People are following me
I shouldn't talk, people will take me away or think bad of me or conspire against me 
Nobody loves me, people pretend to get things from me or they're under cover trying to get me 'keep your friends close and your enemies closer' 
Everyone will leave me 
I can't trust people, everyone is out to get me 
There is always someone trying to get into the house and attack me
Someone I love is possessed by the black cloud and so I can't trust them...it's not really them they are possessed
Threatens me with bees which it will release into my head if I don't do a certain thing and they will sting my brain and kill me slowly
Tells me that if I don't do what it wants bad things will happen to my friends and family
It's always watching me and checking on me
It leads a team of evil things that could come and get me as they are all possessed i.e. policemen, teachers, strangers in the street. I'm always jumpy or think anyone behind me is following me and so walk really fast. I can't walk on the same side of the road as someone who looks scary/dodgy and avoid walking near anyone else at all.
 The voice in my head shows me flashes of what it wants...tries to manipulate and control me 247 e.g. shows me a lot of blood, if I look anywhere it changes the image to something horrible, e.g. a tree = being raped on it or someone watching me behind it about to jump out and get me, a lake = a dead body...and example of what I could be if I don't do what it asks or... An image of me dead in the lake and flashes of me walking into it and letting myself die as I'll look beautiful and that's what I should do. a nail clipper = cutting up my flesh with it and blood everywhere.
 This is controlling my life and I keep seeing things everywhere no-one else sees and then they disappear and I am SO paranoid someone is trying to get me.I am always running and being distracted in public talks or just even when I am with my friends and I go against people I love thinking they are possessed a lot...ARRGH what is this? Please Help!!