my older sister and her husband lost custody of their kids up in jersey around sometime in 2004 so my mom went to court to get temp. custody.  after she got that, my sister and him moved down here and lived with us in our house.  me and my brother-in-law became close friends and i loved him  like an older brother.  
 then on dec. 13  2005 (two days before my 16th birthday) we went on a walk up to the store and he offered to get chinese for dinner as my birthday present from him.  on the walk home he said we probably shouldnt take it home cause everyone else would want some, so he said we could go to this house right around the block from our house and he had a key (cause the guy worked for owns that house and only used it during the day as his workshop).  which i didnt see a problem until he locked the door behind us and took the inside key and put it in his pocket.  then when we sat down at the table he said the electricity didnt work so we'd have to light a candle.  after we finished eating we got up to throw everything in the trash and after i threw my stuff away he walked up close to me head on, and started to kiss me.  i eventually got him off me and said that we should go home.
 he didnt try anything else till february. from feb. to april he made more attempts than i can count. he would ask if i wanted to go up to the gas station and get a couple six-packs.  then on the way home he'd find a spot that we could drink at with out getting caught.  sometimes he would pull out a joint or some mini-shot bottles of liquor and tell me it was all mine.  after i finished smoking or drinking he would slide his hand under my shirt and start touching me then he would lay me down and try to get on top of me.  the first time he tried this i pushed him off and said "what the hell are you doing?" and just walk off to go home.  and everytime he tried after that he would get further and further.
 then on april 20th 06  me and him were the only ones home and he bought about 20 sparks (alcohol) and a **** load of pot.  we split the drinks, but i think he tricked me into drinking more than him, and he told me the pot was all for me and he told me to light up and i think he packed me atleast 4 or 5 bowls from a pipe.  he was in the house while i was smoking a cig in the backyard and once i finished i went in the house looking for him and then i saw him sitting there on my bed looking at my cds.  he told me to come here and put some cd he picked out in the stereo.  so while i was doing that i saw him get up and go lock the front door and look out the window, then he came back in my room and came up behind me and pushed himself up against me and start kissing the back of my neck.  he turned me around and layed me down on the bed and he took his clothes off and climbed on me and started to take mine off.  all i could do was lay there.  i wanted to move or yell for help or something, but i was so messed up that i couldnt even lift my arms up off the bed and sit up.  and the whole time he was on me i tried so hard to get him off me but it was no use and i just layed there crying till he finished and got dressed and left to go to work.
 to make a long story short,  i eventually gave up on fighting him and he raped me repeatedly everyday thru the end of september 06.  i finally told someone what he did to me and went to the police.  they arrested him and held him for a month.  i was then faced with the decision of going thru a trial or just dropping the charges.  my sister took his side over mine saying that "i suduced him" and **** like that.  and i thought i was going to lose my sister and then she told me that she was pregnant (this one being her 7th) with his baby, and how was she supposed to get out of our house with all 6, soon to be 7, kids?  she also told me what terry was telling her about how prision was and that he was being abused because people found out what he was doing to a minor and were threatening to do it to him.  i just became so overwhelmed with guilt and i started to think that maybe i did lead him on and that i deserved what he did to me and that it wasnt really rape...   so i dropped the charges and he was released at the beginning of jan 07.  since may of this year hes been up in northern florida, and i just found out that he is going to be moving back here to orlando. 
i did see him once since he was released and he was talking about how he didnt regret anything he did, and that he was about to disown his wife again.  im terrified of him if hes in town.  i dont know, i might just be paranoid, but i feel like hes going to try stuff again, and this time, im going to be of age(18 in dec), so unless i have bruises and marks, i have no case against him. 
 i dont know what i should do.  i did get counciling from this amazing therapist who has helped me through alot of the past, but i couldnt continue going cuz it was $90 per visit.  and now that hes coming back to town ive been feeling anxious, depressed and scared.  thats the only thought going thru my head repeatedly all day and especially at night while im trying to fall asleep.  
  so where do i go from here?