My mom died suddenly in June 2006. My 20 yo son had a breakdown that same summer and in January of 2007 attempted suicide. He was hospitalized 4 times over 5 months and diagnosed with bipolar. He is now stable on Lithium, living at home with me and able to keep a job now. He still has many coping skills to learn. My 15 yo daughter had 3 surgeries between Oct 06 and June 07 and they all failed. We were sent to Childrens Hospital Boston where a Geneticist diagnosed her with Ehlers-Danlos, a rare connective tissue disorder. She suffers from constant pain, has lost the use of her hands and is in and out of a wheel chair now. My oldest son (23yrs) graduated from college, has a g/f and they both live with me. In June I learned that my husband had been having an affair with the mother of my son's g/f (the kids did not know) and he left me and now lives with her. I cannot work do to the full time care of my daughter. And I am now going through a divorce. Last, but not least, my dearest sister-in-law is losing her battle with cancer and is growing weaker every day. She and my brother are the only family I have. I am trying very hard to get control over my stress: I take anti-depressants, anti-anxiety meds, I walk my dogs regularly, I do guided imagery, I listen to tranquil music daily while resting to help me "escape" for about 30", and I have reached out to the few friends that I have for support. BUT - I am still having panic attacks, nightmares, severe crying jags and terrible constant feelings of fear. I guess I just have to live through all this .. but the grief is overwhelming. I thought I would be married for life. I nearly lost my son and now my daughter has an incurable disease that will progress, and I feel alone alone alone and scared all the time. When I do the guided imagery - I mostly end up angry and turning it off. I have thoughts of suicide, but know that my kids really need me here, so I distract myself in any way I can when I feel those thoughts coming on. I feel guilty even writing all of this - I know my life is good compared to so many others who are losing their life, etc. I am trying to keep a list of the good things in my life ... but its so hard to bring my head to those things when I feel such grief and loss. 
Thank you for your time.
Kimberly