I had a pretty turbulent relationship spanning over three years, involving everything from jealousy, infidelity, drugs, lies, you name it.  We almost had an unexpected baby but my girlfriend miscarriaged about 3 weeks later and we tried to carry on as if nothing had changed, even though I demanded she give the child up for adoption due to our life issues at the time.  This created a pretty large rift in our relationship and problems grew more menacing.  My paranoia drove her away, she cheated, I rebelled, it basically started this whole unhealthy cycle pretty much revolving around sex and perscription drugs.  Don't get me wrong, I loved her unlike any other person in my life but I was also sort of crazy at the time and couldn't harness my emotions.  Things came to a head when we briefly split up but had a one-off hook up which ended with us both fighting again.  At that time, I had just impregnated her and I wouldn't find out for about 2 or 3 weeks later.  I knew this time adoption was out of the question and asking her to get an abortion was equally unrealistic, but somehow we went 2 separate time to an abortion clinic where she would then change her mind.  The entire process was agonizing for both of us, and she ultimately decided to go through with it, me funding the operating and driving her back to my apartment where I planned to care for her for a period of time until we could resume our lives with normalcy.  We tried again to go back to normal, but shortly thereafter, my youngert cousin died in a tragic car accident, prompting me to fly home and attend his funeral.  In short, we never really digested the entire thing and now 4-5 years later, it still plagues me with depressive phases.  Despite having separated and gone our own ways, we are on good terms and she doesn't resent me nor I, her.  She has a son now with another guy and that's probably a factor in my depression.  I often compare my materialistic life in Los Angeles with her domestic family life and feel empty and isolated in the end.  I have had relationships since her, but none as close.  I'm almost afraid to let anyone in that close again.  My current girlfriend definitely notices.  So I guess my question is, is it common for men to suffer depression as a result of an aborted child?  Am i answering my own question here? haha