Well I should start off with some basic background information.
 I'm 14 years old and I have A.D.H.D., O.C.D, O.D.D, and Bipolar disorder. Recently my mother and step-father have decided to get a divorce. My mother at the time was having an affair with another man. So my mother moved out and rented an apartment with her new boyfriend. For about a week I lived with her and her boyfriend, it wasn't good. He threatened me and also drank and almost overdosed on sleeping medication. He had a seizure on the kicthen floor and all I could do is run to the bathroom and cry. So my mother sent me to live with my father who I have a little hostility for because he has taken me off of my medication 2 times which cause me to be sent to a hospital twice, once for 12 days and the other for 3 months out of state. This is where my question comes in.
 So I thought living with my father and step-mother would be terrible. Well I was right, but I had underestimated how bad it is . My father and step-mother constantly tell me I'm worthless and I can't do anything right. Because I'm on medication for my disorders, they call me a pill popper and jacked up. About a few weeks ago, my twin sister was ill and had been sick for about 3 days. She didn't want to go out to register for school and asked if she could go that friday. He violently grabbed her and dragged her through the house. Upon hearing my sister crying and screaming I rushed in and told him to let go of her. He threw her out of the house and grabbed me by my wrist and threw me out as well. He said the following: "I don't want you in my house!" We ran off into the woods by their house and cried and huddled together until he left. From 8:00 a.m. to about 10:00 p.m. we were locked outside with out food or anything. Luckily I had kept a water bottle in my backpack and we filled it up with hose water. 
 I later called a hotline for troubled teens and they suggested to call child services. So to make sure I was making the right decision I went to see the school councler. What he said was shocking to me. He told me that what my father did was right. So I have thought about calling child services but the only problem is that my father and step-mother can hide anything. They are well respected by friends, co-workers, and family. So no one believes me. I have no one to turn to and I don't belong to a church so I cannot talk to a pastor. I pretty much and on the verge of wanting to run away and just keep running until I cannot see him ever again. I don't know who to go to.
 Is there any way I can get help for me and my sister? Or are we stuck taking all of the threats and verbal abuse making us feel like dirt?
 Right now I am on the schools computer because I have no internet at my father's house and I am grounded and exiled from talking to my mother, and pretty much seeing the light of day other than being at school. I am grounded because I am un-organized and I need help from a teacher. My father blames me for everything that happens when sometimes I cannot control the situation. I've never been able to advocate for myself so I get walked all over by anyone. I have no support system and I cannot find anyone who will listen.