Hi,
 I've been on anti-depressants since age 17 (am female, now age 49). I'm a "lifer" I guess - cannot imagine not being on an anti-depressant. The alternative means I'm risking falling into the black pit of despair. Until one month ago, I had been taking 60 mg Cymbalta and 50 mg Trazodone for sleep. 
 Problem is, for the last three years in a row, I have had summertime depression. Nothing bad has ever happened to me in the summer, so there is no obvious trigger for this depression. Usually it hits in mid-June, but it didn't this year, so by July I thought, wow - maybe I've gotten a reprieve this summer. Wrong. Latter part of July it hit like a ton of bricks. I saw a psychiatrist exactly 4 weeks ago, was taken off the Cymbalta and put on Fetzima. I now take 75 mg of Trazodone for sleep. So, I have been on Fetzima for 4 weeks now, 2 weeks at 40 mg and 2 weeks at 80 mg. I just saw my psychiatrist again 1 week ago exactly, where it was decided that I would stay on the Fetzima, even though I was pretty much worse than when I was on the Cymbalta.  As soon as I left her office, I was thinking "why did I agree to that?" And for another 3 weeks? I immediately wanted a "do over" appointment, because I realized I had spent too much time talking about my symptoms and not enough time talking about medication.  I already can't stand myself, and my job and home life are suffering pretty badly, so if this drug doesn't kick in soon, where the heck will I be in 3 weeks?   
 After agonizing all weekend about calling the psych back (but still continuing to take the Fetzima as prescribed), I managed to muster up the motivation to make the call about 4 pm this past Monday. At this point, I had been on Fetzima for 3.5 weeks. I explain to the receptionist that "I'm sorry, I feel worse than I did 4 weeks ago, and I just don't think this is the drug for me." She says "okay, well the doctor will respond but it may not be until Wednesday, which I think is a little weird, but I was so relieved to have simply made the call, that I didn't care. Sure enough, 48 hours later, I have a message on my phone from her assistant. The doctor wants me to continue with the Fetzima because that was what we had agreed to in our meeting 4 days prior. If need be, we could discuss any medicine changes when I saw her again at my previously scheduled appointment in 15 days. And to please call back if I have any more questions. My first thought was "no, I don't have any more questions, because I've just been dismissed, and  I guess she has decided to practice some "tough love" on me, by insisting that I stay on this medicine, because she doesn't think I've given it a fair chance. I feel that the message to me is that I shouldn't really have a say in whether or not I stay on it, since I'm depressed and depressed people are notorious for not being able to make a decision (or stick to one after it's made), so she will just make it for me since that is in my best interests, in her opinion. 
 Am I unfairly judging this situation? Am I right to feel as angry and hurt as I do right now, or is this just my depression talking?  Is it time for a second opinion, or am I just being a wuss? Do I need to understand that my psychiatrist sees LOTS of depressed people so it's understandable that she sees me as nothing but another face in the crowd?  
 P.S. I have made 2 calls to crisis hotlines in the last couple of weeks, and my psychiatrist knows this.  I'd never done that before in my entire life. I actually googled whether or not I could make the call even if I wasn't about to harm myself (and I am NOT going to harm myself). The answer was yes, thank goodness. I go to work during the day, where I try to work AND keep my depression hidden from everyone around me, and then call crisis hotlines at night.  Thank God for the people who man those phones - they are wonderful. If you need someone to talk to, CALL. You can find numerous phone numbers by googling "crisis hotline" or "suicide hotline." Try different numbers until somebody picks up. I've been able to reach someone in less than 5 - 10 minutes max both times. 
 ~Missy