My father was in the military and often deployed.  My mother didn't handle this very well.  I was grounded and yelled at for everything I did or did not do.  Didn't wash dishes directly after supper, coming home from the library (and that is the only place I ever went) a few minutes late, getting an F on a paper (I was grounded for 5 months for a single F in a class in which I was excelling), coming home "late" from soccer practice without calling (I would have missed the shuttle bus if I'd run for a pay phone, not liking what's for dinner (she was no culinary genius, and I'd told her what I did and did not like).  I had a ten-o-clock bedtime until the day I left home for college, and if I was caught reading with a flashlight (I could never sleep, because I never did anything) I'd be grounded.  I was also grounded for something normal, liking shooting my mouth off, but that's what people DO when they're angry.  I guess teenagers aren't people, though.
 She was better when my dad was home.  The last time I was grounded (17 years old), my dad was supposed to be at a 3-week conference.  He wasn't gone an hour, when she flipped out about something and grounded me for 3 WEEKS.  He was home the day after next, because he never received notice about the conference being canceled.  I told him about it, and attempted to explain that I didn't do anything.  I asked him if he noticed anything funny about my being grounded for THREE WEEKS when he was supposed to be gone for THREE WEEKS.  Since I never really DID anything she could ground me from (we were in a new location that I did not like), he just laughed it off.
 The woman is actually our step-mother, but my brother and I welcomed her into the family with open arms (I was 9, he was 7; our biological mother died when we were 5 and 2).  I've since learned from our brother and sister that she has always been like this (they're 13 years older than us, respectively), but that doesn't help much, either.  They, too, and to put up with her screaming obscenities and grounding them, though they generally ignored it.
 I'm still angry about the way she treated us.  My dad was home more often after I left for college, so things were easier on my brother.  He doesn't seem to remember how she screamed at and hit us, and seems to go with the school of thought that I really was a complete and selfish ***** (as I was called).  I tried telling my dad about this on more than one occasion, but he'd either get angry or make it a joke.  "Did she hit hard?"  Well, she CAN'T hit hard, but that isn't exactly the issue!
 When I was still living with my parents, when my dad was home, he'd either play his computer games, read a book, watch TV, or goof off with his soldier buddies.  When I asked him for help on my homework, he'd yell if I didn't understand it quickly enough (my mother would hit).  If I mentioned something that I didn't like about something he or my mother did like, I'd be in trouble.
 I'm going to be twenty-three soon, and I do not want to be angry about this for the rest of my life.  I don't know how to cope with the way they treated me, though.