I'm going to try and sum this up as short as possible.. actually feels good to write this all out :)
My husband and I have been together for 7 years (married for 3) with a beautiful 4 year old little 
girl.   We've really had our ups and down but this last weekend is really making stronger to leave
my husband.  My husband is very narcassistic in his ways.. NEVER apologizes and always turns 
the table around on me.   a few years ago, I was a bartender and stayed out with the bar crew until about
5 in the morning.  We were all friends and were hanging out, needless to stay I didnt tell my husband because
I knew he'd be so upset with me.  My boss and his wife dropped me off at my house and my husband was so mad.. he threatned to divorce me, and said that he was going to take my daughter away from me. He was going to talk to a lawyer ect.  I was so apoloagetic, said I'm sorry, begged for forgiveness...  finally after a week of begging he said he's willing to try.  He requested I see a counselor which I did...   we moved on..    but this past weekend (friday) I fell asleep in our daughters room reading her a story and tickling her back.. I woke up about 12:30 and looked around the house to give my husband a kiss goodnight.  he was no where to been found.  the lights were still on as well as the TV.. I thought maybe he just ran to the store (he smokes and drinks often).. I called him and said, "just calling to say goodnight"  he never answered.. then I text him, no answer..  After he didnt return home ( it was 1:45am) now.. I got worried.. I text him again.. "are you ok? where are you? "  and called him 5 times.. no answer.. finally he calles me back at 2:30am and says he's at his friends house and that he'd be leaving soon?? wtf?  **ne never let me know he was leaving, no note, text or call??**  I fell back asleep.  then 4:45am rolls around and he just walked in the door..   the next day we didnt talk, he never looked at me, never apologized, nothing...  finally Sunday I go up to him and say "How can a husband/ father, just leave his girls in the middle of the night without telling us where you were going?"  he responded with,  "YOU are over reacting, i didnt do anything wrong"  we got in a huge fight...  I'm so tired of being treated like this.. this behavior is NOT normal..  I really dont want my daughter growing up in a broken home.. and all I want is to be in a loving relationship.  My husband really does love his daughter.. but how can he think this is normal and not wrong behavior?  I need support/ guidance/ help...   any thought..