I'm not sure how to start or where to begin. here i go
My names Chris and I'm 18 years old. I'm an antisocial sort of person. wont leave the house for days if i don't have to. wont talk to anybody if i don't have to.
i cant help myself from stealing things, destroying things in stores and anything else i can do if i know i can get away with it. it's not that I'm proud of it, its just that when I'm there in front of it i just do it without thinking. i always lied and cheated my way through any obstacle i could. i can manipulate other people easily and i sometimes do it to a point i feel that i have complete control over somebody. sometimes i will manipulate somebody just to see if my tactic will work. and trust me it does 95% of the time. I've been into drug use for quite a long time, starting out quite young hopping from one substance to another. When i hurt others "mentally" i'm not physically violent. i feel no remorse or guilt, by none i literally mean i don't feel a thing. in my head i sometimes feel like i could kill somebody just to feel somewhat better(i wouldn't..). i cant seem to hold a job together, mostly depending on the environment. i don't like working around people or being in public at all. i feel as if people see me as weird, or just have something bad to say about me. i can feel my entire face turn red and i will sweat very badly and feel very hot at the same time. even if it was cold outside and i was in a t-shirt it would still happen. when i walk i tend to look down and i cannot help myself. i tell myself in my head that if anything it makes me look weird but i feel better if i just tilt my head slightly and go from there. i dropped out of school because i simply couldn't handle it. if i was even 10 seconds late for class i would end up skipping because of the thought of walking into a classroom and everybody looking at me was absolutely terrifying. I don't know where else to turn guys so im hoping you guys can give me some help. i know it sounds complicated and thats the worst part about it. i feel like im living a nightmare. on the edge all the time feeling like i just wanna roll over and die.(jk.) i appreciate any advice or help you guys can offer. wether it be rude or not i understand. even after reading what i just wrote i feel ashamed but again its just how i am.