I have been married to the love of my life for the past 8 years.  We knew each other when we were teenagers, and just happened to come back into each other's lives when I was going through an ugly divorce.  We started out as very close friends for 2 years before we fell in love and got married.  It has had its up and downs, and we did actually separate for a little over a year.  We both have significant health issues - primarily Fibromyalgia.  A year and and a half ago, his mother became ill and he went to California to care for her.  We see each other for two weeks every three months when he comes home for his own doctor appointments and while this isn't exactly bad, it's the three months in between that are the problem.  I cannot be in California with him because my own mother is not in the best of health, my own health is deteriorating relatively rapidly, and my doctors are here.  The last time I spent any time in California, his mother was verbally and psychologically abusive to me.  The only good thing that came from that was watching my husband defend me.  When he is home, it feels like we fall in love all over again every single time.  
 The problem is the three months between visits.  I feel so completely alone.  I cannot walk well and I can't drive comfortably so I pretty much have no friends.  My husband is critical of everything I do or say.  If I need to talk, his mother somehow manages to drag him away from our conversations.  She makes him feel guilty about coming home to me every three months, and calls him constantly while he is here.  We usually allow ourselves at least three days with the phone turned off to reconnect and really catch up on our more important things that we tend not to talk about.  Most of our interaction when we are apart is via text and Gmail messenger.  We do have phone conversations as well, but those seem to decrease as time goes by.  I know he loves me and I love him, but sitting in the house day in and day out with almost nobody to talk to, and facing various health challenges and medical appointments and procedures that would just be better if he was here isn't easy.  We made the decision for him to go take care of his mother together, and decided up front that we love each other enough to make this work.  I know she won't be there forever as her health is deteriorating rapidly.  I am facing a minimum of three surgeries in the near future and possibly more things that I'm afraid to even go forward with alone (rotator cuff, torn hip cartilage, torn wrist cartilage, and possible reinjury to an old elbow surgery as well as a lump in my breast).  I'm depressed and in therapy but most of it is related to my injuries.  Needless to say, Zoloft helps this part.  Am I wrong to feel the need to ask for more time?  He has other relatives in California who could and should be helping out more but who don't except for the two weeks he is here.  His mom needs 24 hour care and will not allow anyone else to do this.  She claims she is afraid I'm stealing her son from her and because I've been divorced before, she refuses to even recognize our marriage as real.  I'm really lost here about what to do.  I'm terrified of what might happen to me being left alone for too much longer.  Please - need thoughts and recommendations here!