I see this as abuse but if not I am sorry. 
 Me (28 male) and my brother (32 male) are used by our parents. I have had issues from this (i became a hermit, i didn't leave the house for 5 years) but my parents still found a way to make money from me (about 700 a month) for taking care of a "disabled" mother who does NOT try and get better. They told me this money was going to be used to get me better but 5 years later... not one cent has been used to get me better. I would like to add that I took care of my mother for years before this "job"
  That's all recent though. There was a time when I had real jobs but I never got to save as it all went to the family. 
 The thing is my father is not right in the head as he thinks me and my brother are still kids and he thinks it's ok that me and my brother have no future. Thing is, the reason we are not homeless is my brother. He has had a great paying job for over 10 years and he also has nothing to show for it.
 Yes, these are my parents but I want a life too. They refuse to move to a cheaper place to live. This would allow for me and my brother to save up money so we could leave. Me and my brother had (i say had because it won't happen) to move out together and go from there. Basically, all I am to my father is a house keeper, cooker and care for my mother. As you might guess it is hard to feel like I am a man here. I am starting to get better on my own. I am doing side-jobs now and am not a hermit anymore. One day i told them i was getting a real job but would still take care of mother. Well, I have gotten NO support for this at all due to them finally telling me they were worried I would lose that 700 a month for taking care of my mother.
 They don't care if i have no future. Heck, my PARENTS when I turned 18 actually forged my name for a credit card and maxed it out. I found out not by them telling me but by finding the bill in the mail and to this day they never paid any of the bill nor do they see anything wrong with what they did. 
 My father has had many good jobs over the years but he never could keep them as he missed a lot of days. All he does is sleep whenever he gets the chance. On the weekends he sleeps non-stop (i am dead serious, I don't know how it's possible to do that). He has a job now that only pays 200 a week because they put up with his missing days and because they offer good insurance so he can afford all my mothers drugs. When he was out of work we had a problem affording food as he paid cash for my mothers drugs. My father also has constant yelling fits/rants daily. I guess you could say he acts like a mean drunk but he doesn't even drink.
 I also never had a real mother as when i was a kid if my mother wasn't trying to kill herself and being in mental hospitals for months at a time she was drugged out of her mind at home. My mother has many physical problems also but again does not want to get better as trust me i tried. Her whole day pretty much is taking drugs, tv and going online. Just recently (2 or so months ago) i did a lot of extra cleaning in the house so some people could give her a scooter. This scooter was supposed to help her do some stuff for herself and get her to a doctor to get her better. well after getting the scooter she said she needed more stuff to be able to go to the doctors etc. Keep in mind she said all of this AFTER getting the scooter and she hasn't sat in it once.
 I realize this is a one-sided story but i am just trying to tell how i feel with horrible grammar (haha). I am asking for help/guidance i guess...
 Thank you.