hey everyone, it's not a question, just wanna tell my tale and ask for opinions, i apologize in advance that my story is a little long, here it goes:
well, i'm 18 and studying to enter med-school, and i have an addicted father, abusive, emotionally and verbally (and probably physically too if his body wasn't a carnival of drugs). the addiction, isn't something new, as far as i know he started smoking opium regularly when he was a couple of years younger than me; but has increased dramatically in the past 8-9 years. i think it's a good time to mention that i'm *not straight*, not openly, but with pretty much no sexual activity at all, because i believe it's not right, anyways, the thing is, i had been caught, more than once, in fact several times but without anyone bringing it up (i mean explicit web-pages and media files). well, the start of all the legendary drama was about 7 years ago (i was probably in 6th grade or so) , with his mothers senility causing her lots of problems and her constant need of her son's attention(we lived in the same building), eventually she got worse and worse, and he would bring home nurses for her (at this time, the drugs which he was addicted to were opium, heroin/cocaine *dunno which, the white powder which is inhaled through the nose* and the new development was crack) and it came to a point that my grandmother had some internal bleeding due to blood thinners which made her death a matter of time, at this point, he would spend several nights at her house, not coming home and obsessing which obviously leads to the tendency to more drug use(some abuse had happened in this period as well, but their extent is nothing compared to what comes next). then her death came, he mourned, and so did i, and he wallowed, not having any father-son interaction with me whatsoever, except for paying my school's tuition and financial stuff, u could say he was more like a financial supporter than a father, anyways, my mother just didn't want to settle for such a low life (as far as i can conclude), therefor several arguments took place, with him cursing my mother and her parents crucially, and i would stand by her defending her, not because i favored her but because it just wasn't right, her parents had done nothing to him, he had no right cursing them, i also went in his room and told him if you behave properly and be reasonable, i will have your back as well, but if you don't, i will stand up to you. then they got a divorce privately, and he rented one of the apartments in our building to a woman, with whom he then started a relationship. although they got divorced, he still lived in the same home with us, my mother and sister and I, making his room a fully-equipped arsenal of drugs and bringing inappropriate so called "friends" to share drugs, like 2-4 nights a week, still no quality time with me, father and son, but hey! i didn't mind, i just did my school, perfectly! and then he started to use WAY too much and the people he would hang out with (some other addicts in the family especially his niece) to get through to him and to his money, would make him aggressive toward us, repetitively, he would get so high that he couldn't speak properly, and one particular night, under the same conditions, he came from his girlfriend's place and started throwing stuff around and struggling to maintain his balance, sh*t-talking started, lots of it, and i just lost it then, he tried slapping me a couple of times, i resisted, he accused me of being a bad son and how could i have forgotten that when i was a kid he would take me to karate school and how do i dare to raise my hand to him, along all the trash-talk which was obvious that had been planted in his head by the same people who fueled the feud (the niece and the gf), and tried to hit my mom, telling her you dare team up with my children against me?, again tried to hit me, but this time i stroke back, told him you're just scum and easily pulled his hair and threw him on the floor, as i was crying, i told him it's all in your head, there are no teams and no one will ever love you like the three of us. after a couple of hours of sleep i felt like cr*p, tried talking to him again like nothing had happened, but he still was high and etc (this happened last year)...
up untill now, there were several other fights, one which during he made me cry again, and i told him this is the last time you will see my tears. another ugly one was when the trash-talk (he accused me of being responsible for my sister's act of committing illegitimate sex *which is frowned upon here*) he went in the garage to bring gasoline and "burn us", my mother locked the door and called the police and then he broke the extremely fragile wooden door and somehow that ended too. note that i still have feelings for him because when i was a child he used to take me to amusement parks a lot and we would have a lot of fun along other fantastic memories, but i didn't have any more of them since the grandmother issue, i would hope that the same old father was somewhere in him. the following fights of last year weren't as ugly, but still, compared to daily husband & wife disagreements, this was like world war. yesterday morning, was my day off from school and i had an exam the day after, like MANY(a couple of dozen) other days, i woke up from the shouting and cursing, running to the kitchen, yelling "Comon!! What's Goin on!?!?!" and with his not-so-effective patronizing voice and look, told me to shut up or else, and i said u know? you just aren't parents, your job description is "to give heart attack". for a couple of hours he was gone, i managed to study, then he came back again and started another round, this time after lots of trash-talk (which the extent of their insult had become much higher than the ones before, an event i didn't expect) the fight got VERY physical with my mom, and she just wouldn't give up and hit him back, i just split them once or twice, being a bystander as i had been throughout the previous year's fights (because i had condemned myself of taking sides, even though i knew i hadn't, i was just trying to be righteous) and then somehow i threw myself in there, cuz there was no way i could take ANY MORE of this cr*p, so, as he was swearing that he would kill my mom by the end of the day, i said no one is gonna get killed, again, with a completely neutral tone, then he threatened me again, i got involved, disowned him as my father, and told him every single fact about his pathetic life and the money-leeches whom he considers allies, and to count the days till his body is found in the gutter; his final resort: calling me a fag during a conversational banter with my mom since the fight wasn't over, again told me: who took you to the amusement parks and who got you all those prizes? i said: "my boyfriends" since his last resort HAD, in fact, got to me, a LOT! and as i was going to the dentist, i told him: "try to overdose and die, ok?" 
 note that i didn't ask for much, just a peaceful environment to study this year to get into a university, and once in a while, some heart warming, more importantly: i did not start any fight whatsoever, he himself wouldn't let us have a healthy relationship, always hoping that he'll be a dad someday again, and i did everything that makes a parent proud and im a good person! i don't cause anyone trouble or misfortune, i play the piano, speak fluent english and a little french along our own language and another one, i also cook once in while, my reward is being called a fag?
 I'm terribly sorry for the length of my "Question" but admit it, you will NOT, under any circumstance, find platinum drama like this anywhere on the globe! :)  anyways, i just wanted your opinions and your pointers, i'm probably damaged goods, maybe it will help someone else. (8000 character limit!)
                     Best Regards