I guess may be this is where I, I am not sure, I have a long history of psych illness, obvious BPD, bipolar recently became apparent, but I have serious health problems. But due to my psych history no one takes me seriouusly. I am a RN as well. I studied too go to Medical School but never made it as physically Im just so sick and tired of being sick and tired, literally. I don't know what to do to be heard. Yes, people listen to me, but they do not hear me. I am in the health field and have obvious health problems but by now, now that psychologically Im stable, my family and many friends have turned their backs. I'm so scarred. I posted here because when I finally became so sick that I cannot leave my house anymore, my cell  phone broke (bad luck I know) and I was a victim of identity fraud so my debit card is out for a week, the internet is my only source of communication. The realization hit me when I saw the truth. I should have known. Internet sites are just like the outside world. No one responded to my desperate pleas for a diagnosis, although I medically responded to theirs. They stuck to their own, cliques, they had already formed friends. The doctors appear arrogant thus far and have ignorred my posts as well, skipping over them, just as the doctor in the ER refused to treat me-even with sysmtoms similar to spinal cord injury (my diagnosis and symptoms range from lymphoma to multiple sclerosis and definitely involve my cervical spine as I have been diagnosed witth fibromyalgia, lupus, cervical kyphosis, and the list goes on-I think its just one condition). I am scared, or rather sad, very saddened by the fact that I may in fact die because people just don't care. I used to have dreams of changeing the world, but I realize I am powerless. I just find it so sad and so irronic that the very people I was trying to help, my all time goal and dream of loving and caring for others and making a difference, those people won't help me, so I in turn might not physically be around to help them. I wanted to make a difference, and I know in a small way to some I have, but in the long run, I wasn't given equipment I needed to make the big enough difference in this world that I wanted. If anyone has gone through something similar, getting people to take them seriously even though you have a psych diagnosis, anything would hlelp. Thank you.