I'm a 17 year old girl & I think I'm depressed. I don't remember the time when I actually felt content with my life. From time to time when my life becomes unbearable I think about committing a suicide. I have tried it twice before by drinking some drugs but it didn't work. I feel like I don't belong anywhere. My relationship with my parents is distinct, I'm not close to my mother and I constantly have arguments with her as well as with my sister. My dad gets angry pretty easily & he doesn't even understands me or anything that concerns me. I try to not to bother them so that they'll just leave me alone. Recently, my grandma passed away who was the only person in the world I cared about, who accepted me & understood me. At school, I have a couple of close friends but my best friend moved this year. they don't understand me that much I just hang out with them so that I won't have to be alone. My grades are low. I feel bad about myself, my body & my appearance. I try to be positive at times but sometimes I break down. I often cry myself to sleep. I broke up with my boyfriend recently I got tired of breaking up and making up with him. He crushed my pride, used my love. I thought we'll be always together I felt like he was the one, my 1st lobe. But he turned out to be a jerk. Our relationship was based on lies. Besides I didn't want to lie to my parents they didn't know it my family is very strict and wouldn't have approved. I don't know what to do with my life. I keep making the same mistakes over and over. I feel like my past is always haunting me. I don't know what to do. I really want to life & have a happy life. I've got so many dreams & goals that I want to accomplish but I don't know from what to start. I don't want to end my life. I'm grateful for everything that I've got & I know that there a people in the world with far more worse problems and conditions but still I feel bad. I feel sad most of the time I don't know why. I'm don't sulk around 24/7 but I cry for no reason at all. I feel lost & trapped. I sometimes feel jealous of people who seem so happy with what they got. I just don't know what to do. My life seems so useless, meaningless & hopeless. I think that no 1 even would have cared if I just disappeared.  I'm afraid that my family won't understand me if I ask them for help. I feel so completely lonely. Please help. what should I do1?