I'm a 28 year old man. I've been with my wife for 3 years. We have had our ups and downs as any normal relationship would, I guess. (If there is such a thing as normal when it comes to relationships.) I recently took a job working out of town being gone for a month or two at a time. My wife started talking to another man almost Immediately after I took this job. She confessed this to me. I respect her honesty. Here's the real dilemma. She is now 6 months pregnant and tells me she thinks this is the other man's child. I was very hurt and upset about it at first but I've already gotten those tears out of the way. She left me while I was gone out of town and I came home to an abandoned house. We have a 3 year old son already BTW. Her leaving with my son is what really hurt the most. I couldn't believe it but reality set in that she was just gone chalk it up as a loss. But when she told this other man she was pregnant, the other man being a coward in the first place for even sleeping with another man's woman, told her to get an abortion. She felt rejected by this and has gravitated back to me. I love her dearly and tell her I'm still here for her and I support her emotionally no matter what happens. I understand people slip up I cheated on her before we got married and remained faithful to her during our marriage. The cheating isn't the issue. It's this child. Well the child really isn't the issue either. The child is innocent in all of this. The real concern is whether I can deal with being married to a woman who is having a child from another man. She tells me she wants counseling and wants to try to make things right... I fear it's too late... The question What if it is my child? keeps playing over in my mind and if I reject her now and it is my child I will feel like an even bigger idiot. I do want to make things right I just don't know if I can wake up every morning to a child born from such an emotional situation for me... Please give me some advice... Sorry for the randomness and rambling please ask questions if anything is unclear.