I've been taking Effexor XR (75 mg, 1 daily in morning) for about 7 months, and I love it, but I'm concerned about a possible side effect. For the past 6 months, I have been getting terrible night-sweats that appear to be limited to REM sleep. I am not normally a sweater - even when I work out I don't sweat this much.
 I believe that the sweats are limited to REM sleep for several reasons: the sweating always wakes me up, and I am always in the middle of a dream when I wake. As long as I am in the midst of a dream, I sweat (also happens if I start to drift off and have a light-sleep dream). Also, my sweating wakes my husband -- which is sad for him, but useful for corroboration. He says that while I sweat, my eyes tend to move rapidly under the lids, that I have muscle tone (unlike deep sleep, which has little to no muscle tone), and that I am somewhat responsive to outside stimuli. All this suggests to me that I am in REM sleep. The rest of the time - no sweating.
 I don't think that this is related to anxiety, as I get this symptom even if I am having happy or funny dreams. Also, there seems to be no difference in quantity of sweat based on dream content - nightmares are pretty equal in volume to happy dreams. I also don't think it's related to room temp, as I have tried setting the temp at anything from 60F to 80F, and the sweats are pretty consistent across trials.
 I am not certain this is related to the Effexor (it could simply be related to diet changes, the fact that I started smoking again ~6 months ago, or the fact that I'm in my last semester of grad school), but the symptoms started shortly after reaching consistent Effexor blood serum levels (btw - I'm getting my degree in neuropsych, so I've been watching all this closely from a clinical point of view).
 One thought is that the Effexor could be interacting with the nicotine - is this possible/probable?
 This sweating is really disgusting (and dehydrating). Please, any thoughts/advice you have would be appreciated.