Hi guys, I hope you are all well today.
 Today I went to see my doctor because of my low mood. It took an awful lot on my part to go to the doctor's and open up about how I really felt inside - not that I got much opportunity to open up. Below is an approximation of how the appointment went including most of the key things hat were said. 
 Can anybody tell me if what I experienced is a standard response from a doctor - or should she have done more?
From my point of view I felt that the doctor should have probed more, asked more questions and shown more concern. Not because I am hung up on getting concern from people - but because surely, as a doctor, she should realise that there could be other hidden things which I am not opening up about and she should know that there could be a million hidden reasons for why I feel the way I do. I repeatedly asked for some further professional help but felt fobbed off. 
 How does she know that I didn't undergo some traumatic thing in the past which I need resolving, how does she know that I was not begging for help before I go and top myself or shoot a family? (I am not going to do that by the way, just saying she does not know that) She just kept pushing the anti-depressants. I actually felt worse when I came out than when I went in. What I mean is, if I did plan on doing something serious to myself or someone else then I doubt I would have told her in a 5 minute conversation. I felt as though I was crying out for help and got sent packing.
 Anyway, here is the appointment...
  Dr: How can I help you today?
 Me: Im’not enjoying myself.
 Dr: How do you mean?
 Me: In life, in general, I’m having a bad time.
 Dr: (puzzled expression)
 Me: Most days I don’t want to be alive.
 Dr: Have you had thoughts of harming yourself?
 Me: Well, it’s not quite like that, it’s more like I just would rather be dead – as in, I would probably be better off not 
living, it wouldn’t be as hard to cope – I just don’t know how I would get there.
 Dr: Have you made any plans along those lines? 
 Me: (thinking)
 Dr: You know, like have you decided on hanging or...
 Me: No, not as such. Well sort of. It’s difficult to explain. I just feel low enough every day to be thinking it’s the best way out – and it’s been getting worse and more often.
 Dr: Ok, well it’s good that you’re not planning it in your head. How long have you felt like this?
 Me: Well, it’s been getting worse for the last month at least but I would say there has not been a time in the last 12 months or 2 years where I have not felt down or depressed – it’s as though it has taken a different turn though more recently.
 Dr: Last time I saw you you were trying t o come off Tramadol – are you off that now?
 Me: I’m down from six or eight per day to two per day at the moment but have not stopped completely. 
 Dr: I think that could be what is making you feel so down then because coming off those tablets will have an effect on you.
 Me: It could be partly to do with that – I have felt a lot more emotional and sometimes really angry. I am a calm person usually but I have been finding it hard to not get angry and upset about things.  However, before I started the Tramadol I was a couple of months into a course of Citalapram because of depression. I came straight off the Citalapram though within a week of being given Tramadol, I’m now starting to feel the way I used to feel before I went onto Tramadol.
 Dr: And was the Citalopram helping?
 Me: It’s difficult to say because just at the time they would have been hopefully kicking in I also had to stop taking them because of the pain killers.
 Dr: Ok well it could be worth trying the Citalaopram again now and see how you get on.
 Me: Ok. I want to explain a bit more too about the effect it’s having on me. 
 Dr: (waiting)
 Me: I can’t sleep. I toss and turn at night. Sometimes all night. Other times I over sleep. I never want to get up and face the day. I can’t concentrate on things. I feel shaky. I shake my arms and hands and legs – quite often at night. Even when I am still, inside it feels like I am exploding – like my blood is Lucozade. Like I am fizzing inside. I lie there, even at 3am and feel like I need to run a marathon, but at the same time I’m lethargic and unmotivated. It feels like agony.
 Dr: Ok.
 Me: I don’t enjoy anything, or socialise. More or less never. I’m just low. This isn’t just the last month it’s a couple of years, and also in the past. Just until recently I was burying it inside.
 Dr: Ok, so I think the best plan is to try you on a low dose of Citalopram, that’s the first port of call really. Would you mind filling in this form though first?
 (Dr gives me a form with the standard depression questions on it. There are 10 questions and I answer 5 out of 5 for 7 of them. 4 out of 5 for two and 2 out of 5 for one question (Do you move around a lot?) Then I give the form back)
 Dr: I looks like you may be suffering from moderate to severe depression given your answers so I definitely think it’s worth trying the Citalopram and then coming back to see me in a couple of weeks.
 Me: Ok, I am happy to try those. Is there somebody I can talk to though? I really feel as though I need some help.
 Dr: There are charities out there who you can get in touch with if you are feeling down. (Dr writes down the name of a local charity where volunteers give of their time and passes it to me.) You can look them up on the internet and get the number, just give them a call. They are based in the town centre. There is also the Samaritans if you just need to talk to someone at some point.
 Me: I meant can you refer me to somebody for therapy or counselling?
 Dr: The thing is, if I refer you to the mental health team they will most likely just send you back and ask for you to be referred on to one of the charities.
 Me: Oh. It’s just that I am really struggling to cope every day and I can’t carry on. I’m having problems in my relationships with my family and my girlfriend that I can’t deal with and I have had issues going back for years that I want to sort out and need help with.
 Dr: Have you got access to the internet at home?
 Me: Yes.
 Dr: You could look up CBT, that may help you. Have you heard of it?
 Me: Yes, I know about CBT.
 Dr: The thing is it’s probably about you having to change the way you think about things if you want to get better.
 Me: I understand that, yes. And I have read a fair amount about CBT not long ago. I am really struggling though to deal with things and think seeing somebody professionally could help. I am falling apart inside.
 Dr: What we will do is start you on the Citalopram and you can come back in two weeks time and see how things are going.
 Me: Ok. What days are you here?
 Dr: I’m only in on Fridays. Here is your prescription ohhhkayyyy? 
 Me: Ok thanks, take care. Bye.
   Sorry about the long post. Hope you managed to stick with it. 
Does anyone have some advice which could help?
Do you think I should go back? See someone else?
I'm a bit lost.