I think I may be a sociopath or something else like it. I manipulate others. I'm a pathological liar, I have shallow emotions, and I've never felt remorse or shame or guilt over something I've done. I don't feel empathy for others. I don't feel love for others either. I'm secretive and paranoid. I've abused others and animals and never felt bad. I don't feel attached to anyone and I don't have friends. When I do I don't care for their emotions and lie to them about everything. I make a plan in my head and do anything to make my plan come true. I make up things about my past to get my way with people, to make them feel bad about me, to get them to do things for me. I convince people that they came up with an idea when I planted it in their brain. I make people feel about something they thought was their idea to do when it wasn't. I don't care who gets hurt or offend. I'm always bored. I day dream about ways others could die that would benefit myself. I've day dreamed about my family dying in so many different ways so that I got the death money or so that I lived with a relative I had or so that people felt bad for me and I got things. When I'm in a relationship I don't have an emotional attachment to the person, I'm just bored and I don't care if they get hurt. I made my last boyfriend break up with me by saying certain things because I wanted the relationship to end looking like he was the shallow mean one, the villain. I'm a horrible person, I know that a lot of the things I say are lies to the people around me, but I never admit to it or feel bad about it or regret my lies and want to tell the truth or come clean. I know that I need help, but I'll never do anything about it. What I did was wrong in most peoples eyes, but it got me what I want. I also talk fast and my words get jumbled up. When I type it takes me forever to write something else because I'm always editing it because it tends to never make sense the first several times. I talk to myself in a language that isn't real and I am always walking around my house. I'm positive that someone is always outside my window or trying to break into my house at night. I've thought about being a ruler and having to chop peoples heads off, and that thought doesn't make me feel bad or sick. I also have always been fascinated by serial killers and have even sent letters to different ones in prison. I've studied different cases and killings and it just interests me.