My supervisor came to me a few years ago telling me how unhappy he was and that he was going to leave his fiancé..we started seeing each other. Why she was still living with him he continued to tell me he broke up with her and was waiting for her to move out...a year goes by and she left....then we got into a huge fight and he's telling me he was staying at his parents and here he was really living with her...she left to stay with her mother because she found out he was cheating on her. She came back and when we agreed to try and work on things once again he kept telling me he asked her to leave telling her things were not working out. I'm not going to get into complete details because it's to much. But he did crazy things like give me a fake key to his house, he would break up with me every other day...tell me he loves me then hates me. Constantly made promises then broke them. in the end I ended up talking to his "fiancé" and everything he had told me was a lie...he never broke up with her...he was and had been working on everything with her...he would go out with me then go home telling me he was going home to bed, but would be spending time with her when he told me she was packing her things to leave once again. Everything he said was a lie. In the end I went to hr at work and explained we had a relationship and it turned bad and it was uncomfortable....I asked him numerous times to go with me. He ended up getting fired and he was there a very very long time. I never meant for that to happen I figured they would switch one of our job titles. I just feel guilty...even though he emotionally abused me I still feel bad. I haven't talked to him in almost a month, he changed his number. I did start therapy. I just feel so guilty he lost his job. But I know if this didn't happen it would have been the same thing over and over. I do feel like he will never talk to me again. I didn't mean to hurt him this way. I sent him a couple emails apologizing and he did respond once saying he pretty much Hates me.. I thought of this person as my best friend. I know it's not healthy but in some way I wish he would talk to me again and I don't think he ever will..