Recently, my mom has been calling me but I have refused to take her calls.  I feel guilty about doing this but here's why I have refused to pick up the phone.
 Last summer, my mom and I had a huge argument and it didn't end very well.  She hung up on me but not before saying things like comparing me to other people.  She's done this all my life but it wasn't until I made myself look up some reputable websites that her behavior wasn't ok.  So I made up my mind then that she would never get away with hurting me like that ever again.  So that's why I haven't been picking up the phone but I haven't felt good about doing this since it's my first time that I've conscientiously decided not to do so.  
 Under the advice of one of my friends, I talked to my dad about the problem and hoped that he would help but he didn't.  He wasn't mean about responding to me but the gist of his response was that I brought the problem on myself because I wouldn't do what my mom wanted.  In case anyone wants to know what my mom wanted from me, she wanted me to go into medicine/science, get married (but to a Korean man-she's extremely against me marrying African Americans, which I find very disturbing), etc.  Growing up, I did what she wanted until I entered university.  It was in university that I lost my way.  I was under a lot of stress and didn't end up graduating university, although my parents don't know that.  I found a way to keep it quiet.  So now, although I'm living halfway around the world away from my mom, she can find ways to contact me.  I am ok with emails as long as they're short and to the point.  I don't tell my mom anything that I think she could use to attack me which is why she makes those comparisons to other people.  
 I'm 33 years old and living with my dad and grandmother.  My dad and mom are still married but because of work, my dad has to be away from her most of the year.  I'm not in any relationship but I don't want to be married for the sake of being married or to make my mom happy.  I don't like her idea of a husband since it sounds too traditional and racist for me to take.  I'd rather be single for the rest of my life.  And because of her, I don't want to have any children ever but if I am so unfortunate as to have kids, I wouldn't ever let them near her, especially if I thought that she would treat them the same way she treated me.
 I know that I've made my mom sound like some sort of monster although she isn't all the time.  I do think she is too nosy, and verbally abusive when she doesn't get her way.  I tried to tell her all this calmly several years ago but she refused to listen.  And there are times that I've been depressed but my mom would call me a liar since I didn't try to commit suicide.  But that doesn't mean that I don't get depressed.
 I know I've made a mess of my life and I want to start fresh but I feel that I can't as long as I have my mom around to verbally abuse me.  I've told some of my friends about this and they've been a good support.  I'm not sure what else to do.  First, I want to know if my mom has been abusing me.  I feel stupid that I didn't pick up on this when I was a child.  I could have sought counseling or something if I had realized that her behavior wasn't acceptable.  Also, I want to know if continuing to ignore (basically, not answering her calls) is the right thing to do.  It's been over a year since our last phone conversation but I don't have enough emotional strength to deal with talking to her again.  My heart starts pounding uncontrollably and it takes a while before I can calm down.  Finally, I'd like some advice generally on what to do.  I do feel like I messed up my life and although I am working now (part time), I do want to go back to school but I don't have enough money and I wouldn't qualify for any of the loan programs that are out there.  If there was a scholarship to help people like me who have been in an abusive relationship to get them back on their feet, I'd be very grateful.  But I doubt there is.
 Anyway, I'd like some advice on any or all of this if it's possible.  Thank you.