I'm a graduate student in architecture and I constantly find myself getting extremely angry over the smallest things.  I don't want to blame it on my past (house fire in 6th grade - lost everything including my dog and other pets, parents divorce in high school, oldest of four and try to lead by example), but they may have led to my reactions, who knows.  This is more specifically directed at the anger I feel and my reactions toward my girlfriend who is in Spain right now.  I have never physically harmed her, but I have gotten her upset at my constant need of her attention and approval.  I am jealous of any guy she meets or talks to.  I get upset when I don't get immediate responses when we are talking online i.e. gchat (our only constant line of communication).  I often feel insecure; I constantly need to hear "I miss/love you".  She displays her emotions a lot less than I do which discourages me.  I am still always trying to impress her, though she says we're "past that stage".  I am a hopeless romantic, and she says she's not into the fairytale world I believe I live in (delusional?).  I always feel that if I don't have her constant and consistent attention, then I will lose her to another person.  At this point I get very angry because I can't control my emotions and end up making things worse.  I tell her she's not on an equal level of commitment, that she wouldn't make the same sacrifices for me as I would for her, and that she needs to try harder to show me these emotions.  She reacts by saying that she does make sacrifices and such, but that it's never enough to make me satisfied.  I even feel that she puts Facebook (damn its creation) ahead of me.  I should not be so insecure.  I am healthy, athletic, and intelligent.  However, I am also a jealous, attention-starved, depressed, perfectionist who is afraid that he will lose the girl he loves if he keeps reacting this way.  I would like to stop over-reacting and live a more happy lifestyle.  What is the remedy?