My sister suffers from a borderline personality.  She is 56, buried in very deep financial problems, physically disabled and absolutely impossible to deal with.  She was once a very beautiful woman, intelligent and charismatic but always tempermental, impulsive and always had stormy relationships (husbands, work, friends, family).  Her story is nothing new, three decades of divorces, job changes, angry outbursts, promiscuity, bankruptcies and abuse of tranquilizers. She has left a long trail of messes because she never took responsibility for any of her actions.  She is in debt for student loans from 30 years ago, never paid a dime.  She borrowed so much money from my father who thought he could "fix" her and he died penniless.  The first thing she did the morning he died was empty his ATM account. She had an accident 7 years ago and suffered brain damage.  Her mind is the same but she has impaired speech and motor skills.  I love her but we have never been close.  She has always been unjustly jealous and angry toward me because I've had a stable life that I worked very hard for.  We came from a pretty dysfunctional family so I have a hard time keeping my head above water and I don't have the fortitude to deal with her.... it literally kills me inside.  The whole family has given her money, let her live with us and given our best advice.... only to be kicked in the teeth.  No gratitude here... It's always someone else's fault.  She's been in subsidized rehab facilities and has been seen by social workers who throw their hand up.  She does not want to get better.  She wants to be a victim.  My question is 1) Is there any hope for someone  to get help in this situation when the family cannot afford financially or emotionally to take care of her.  2) Getting near her is like knowing you have to put you bare hand down a running garbage disposal.... and yet I feel so guilty that she lives in such pain and I don't know what I can do.  I think this disease is so cruel and I am having a very hard time finding any meaning in this situation.