My Step-Father and Mother never got along. He took seizures and always laid in bed. Even when he was feeling perfectly fine he still laid in bed because he didn't want anything to do with my mom. She was always hounding him to get out of bed, but that never worked. The were the world's perfect example of a horrible marriage. They argued, he hit my brother ( my brother is his child-my half brother) and me when we were children. My mother hated it when he would hit us but she would never do anything about it but yell at him. She would just say " YOU DON'T HIT HIM/HER LIKE THAT!". They might have argued for a while but my step-dad would always stomp off like a coward. 
  My mom would leave the house and I would have to stay home and "baby-sit" him ---because he would black out and take seizures. Sometimes he wouldn't even really be sick - he would just fake it so he wouldn't have to go to the market with her to buy groceries. One time I remember of telling my mom I wanted to go with her to the market, that I didn't want to stay home with him. She yelled at me and threw a fit and said " If you don't stay home I'm NOT going to the store and no one will have anything to eat!" I was MAD, very MAD, but I had to stay home ( I was 15). 
 It all started one day when everything was still "normal", It was July 5th, 2005 and we had just come home from setting off fireworks when my step-dad collapsed in the kitchen and started convulsing in a life-threatening seizure and was unresponsive, an ambulance was called and he went to the ER, I was worried because at the time I saw him as a father figure and cared about him because my father left when i was 4 and was the only one that was ever there as a father to me. After hours of caring and worrying (my mother seemed to not care so much) he came out of it and started to become "normal" again. Not long after this they gave him strong medications and sent him home. It was so late that it was into the next morning and  everyone went to bed. I had been in bed sleeping for a while and he came into my room and started to kiss me and he said " do you know how hard it is being in love with you and your mother at the same time?" I pushed him off of me and told him to leave me alone. ( I should have screamed at the top of my lungs but I was still very sleepy and was having a hard time making sense of it all) ---Did I mention my grandmother was sleeping in another bed only 5 feet away from me? --- He left my room that night.
The next morning I asked him " Did you mean what you said last night?" -- I wanted to know if he was in his right mind or if it was the drugs the hospital gave him--- and he replied "yes, I did" I went to my room and stayed in there for a while and later on in the day my mom had left  while I was watching TV in the living room and I asked him how this situation all came about and why he was doing this and he (my step-dad) began telling me of how he had lucid dreams of performing sexual acts on me, (all while he had a smile on his face while telling me! He acted as if it was some kind of a joke). I didn't say to much besides asking if he had dreams about anyone else, and he told me he dreamt about my best-friend-at the time, in the same exact manner. Other than that I just didn't know what to say. It was gross and very weird. This went on for a while until  he sat beside me and decided to start kissing me, I told him to stop and he did but then he started telling me things such as : "This happens all the time, people fall in love" & asking : " you're not going to tell your mother are you?" ( & i didn't tell my mother for a long time because I knew she would never believe me because I never got a long with him in the first place). Within the next few days to weeks  ( i really cant remember) he started nagging me to have sex with him, I had no one that I trusted enough to tell or turn to for help. He just wouldn't leave me alone so I allowed him to have sex with me. This happened maybe 5-10 times along with other various sexual acts. I was a virgin when he did this to me. It got to the point that I went to him looking for sex, even when my mom was in the living room I would walk from my room through the living room into my mother & his bedroom to do it even though my mother told me not to. At that point in time I  pretty much thought and believed that the damage was done and that it didn't matter anymore & not only that but that was the only real attention that I got from the people I lived with. My mom was always yelling at me because I didn't help her clean and cook. My brother and i (we are 9 years apart) always argued. & My grandma and I didn't get along because i had to share a room with her and she was always wetting her bed and our bedroom (i had to share a room with her/ i didn't have my own privacy) stank terribly.
 Present Time: My Step-dad is now in jail serving his sentence for Incest ( they didn't charge him with anything else because I didn't testify) --I knew his family would be there and I didn't want them pointing the finger at me calling me a ***** and giving me dirty looks, ( they already say " He's in jail because of you!!" because my own mother told them that I had an affair with him and she completely ruined my reputation & she told that to anyone and everyone she felt like telling), Not to mention I was very scared and I didn't even have my own mother on my side! She would have stood up for him. I now live on my own and i am now 21. Married with a 1 year old and a baby on the way. 
 when i lived with my mom i went to counseling this was only for a month or so because she talked me into quitting she said " All they are doing is trying to get information) --- my step dad was MIA, didn't go to his court date and was running from the police at the time.
  I just want to talk about this and get some feed back. I have a family of my own now but I often think about these things. It is affecting my marriage and my sex life with my husband.
   My questions are :
 What are your personal thoughts on this story?
Who was the one at fault?
Was I just as guilty as him?