My name is ALex and I am 23 years old. I was prescribed Zolof and and was moved up to 50 MG. On Sept 10 I was very depressed and took 3 times my perscription (150MG) I took it in the morning and that night my heart was racing 160 BPM I went to Emerge where they instructed me to not take Zolof until I speak to my family doctor. The following night I was rushed to hospital again with my heart at160 BPM again. I was realesed and the same thing happend the following night. I was then fine for two days but expericened extra and skiped beats. It happend againa nd I was admitted to hostpital where everything checked out negetive. I spent 9 days in the hostpital with a racing and pounding heart where they checked for heart disease,  ran an echo, they htought I was hypo clicimic which was rulled out, and they did a CT scan. I wore a helter moniter however unfortunitly I had no palviatations that day. I was realesed and my heaert was still pounding and was assured to saty off the Zolof. I started to loose my mind while in the hostpital and started to feel like I was dreaming. I was going through withdraw from the Zolof and felt I was going insane so I checked myself into a mental hostpital. I stayed one night and the Phsye doctor told me to go on 25 MG of Zolof. I feel slightly better however my heart will not stop racing and I never had this problem befor epriore to going on the medication. I have done numerouse ECG scans and they all are normal. TOday I went back to see the doctor and she told me to stop taking Zolof and take Clonazepam. My heart racing has not stopped. Was htis caused by me taking the 150 MG on September 10? WIll this go away? should I continue with the Zolof (My heart does not pound as hard on Zolof but still races) My heart prior to taking the 150 MG was perfectly fine. My chest hurts and my heart can Race for hours.  I know I made a mistake however I am a young father and need to be a functioning espect in his life. Can someone please help me. It should also be noted that my T waves are very high and my potasium level is normal... 
 Please Help