I started dating a guy about a year and a half ago. Took me on dates, made me feel wanted. Was great with affection until I caught him talking to his ex and 2 other girls he engaged sexual activities with. I at the time didn't care much because it was at the beginning of our relationship. It went down hill from there. Kept finding out lies of other girls and somehow got pregnant. (Later he confessed to trapping me) while I was pregnant he hit me threw me around and verbally abused me. I noticed in the night he was always using the bathroom every time I got up. I left a recorder one day while I left to pick up the kids. Sounds like he turned on the water put the coffee pot on and just sounds of banging and him saying I'm about to come. Atleast it what I hear. He Denys it even when I play it he says it was him washing something in the sink. We move to another state and at this point he noticed that I was recording. I got up to my recorder stopped and turned back on by him so he can act like my iPhone cut off and started recording magically on it own when he was up. I changed the password and didn't notify him and that night I recorded. We were staying with friends and when I listen to the recordings he gets up and you hear a door open then you hear mosning and again water running in the back to drown noises out. When I confronted him he again hit me. Said I was crazy. We have a 5 month old daughter, which I had carried on a few occasions that he's beat me. I have 4 kids of my own that hear the yelling and him cussing me out. If I leave he says he'll come after me and because that's his daughter he'll do anything to take her away and make my life a living hell. I'm now homeless because of all these issues and he's still following me everywhere I go so I have to go along with we are together... Tired just tired. He yells at me out side , cops even warned him one time he slapped a drink out of my hand and a by stander called them because he head butted me and left me on the ground. I was too scared to fess up to it because he was there. What now? I'm too weak and on drugs to cope with everything. None of which affect me being an awesome mom for the past 16 yrs