This is difficult.  I don't know what to expect but I'm tired of being haunted by what I did in the past.  To give a backstory:
 I had a troubled childhood (this is no excuse for my actions).  My father was physically and emotionally abusive to my mother and older siblings, and left her for his secretary, taking the house and leaving my mother penniless when she was near death.  I was probably about 7 at the time, and my only vivid memories of my life before I was 10 are of the horrible moment my mother was taken to hospital (possibly the last time I would see her alive... luckily she survived).  I hated my father from that moment, and my childhood/early teenage years were truly miserable with my mother turning to drink to cope.
 I was sexually abused by a school bully from about age 9.  Our mothers were close friends and he was much bigger and stronger than me.  I never told anyone this.  He used to make me play "games" and touch him in his genitals, overpowering me if I refused.  I hate to say this, but in my weakness and misery I took it out on my sister who was 4 years younger - treating her badly, and even mimicked one of the "games" I was subjected to on a couple of occasions when I was 9/10.
 I grew into a horribly angry and aggressive teenager.  At 14 I was verbally abusive to my family members, doing terrible at school, and had been using hardcore porn for sexual gratification for years at this point.  That summer I didn't socialise with anyone and rarely left my bedroom.  I became nocturnal, sleeping through the day.  On two or three occassions I remember pleasuring myself in my sibling's room while she was sleeping.  I did not touch her in any inappropriate places, and I will be quite honest I did not even feel guilty until about 2 years later when I suddenly "remembered" these awful things I'd done and felt absolutely devastated with myself for my actions.
 I am not excusing my behaviour - trust me everyday it is like having a cloud in my mind, with a millstone pressing down against my brain.  I get no solice and no matter what good things I do nowerdays my subconscious tells me I am evil and don't deserve to be happy.  
 My sister and I have a fantastic relationship, and she is always excited when I go to visit and texts/emails often.  I have a great relationship with the rest of my family, and got myself a good education, a good job, and always make an effort to treat people well.  I lost my faith in God because I could not forgive myself for my actions, ended up having a drinking problem and turning to drugs because of my guilt, but everytime I sort my life out I feel this awful guilt.  It's like my subconscious will not allow me to be happy (maybe I don't deserve to be).
 Like I said I don't know what I want from this.  I've just got to a point where I need to get this out of my head and perhaps even rationalise the things I've done in my life.
 Any thoughts welcome.