I think this may be a case on my hands because after speaking to this doctor I want to get my stitches taken out somewhere else or he owes me a great apology.  After my surgery I stay a night.  I had open knee surgery. They went in arthroscopically and then they cut a four inch cut to go in there and fix my knee cap.  First of all I thought I was staying an extra night because I felt so much pain.  And after I didn't get my dosage of pain medication the doctor seemed to be in a bad mood and came to me and said your leaving the hospital!!!  Like shouted at me.  And said ok well I thought they were keeping me here and you didn't give the order and they said only you could discharge me.  He gave me a lecture saying he has done more extensive surgeries and they haven't really given him a fuss on pain medication as I have.  Well if he is talking about total knee replacements well you know what they were probably over sixty when he did them.  They have probably had a lot more things happen to them then.  And their pain tolerance is higher so they can take less drugs.  My pain tolerance is very low so I need something really high to make it go away. 
 Anyway he knows about the mental meds I was on and got off of.  And he said that the only reason I want these pain meds is to cover up my mental problems that still exist.  He said I was drug seeking and that my knee wasn't that serious to begin with.  Seeing that I need my knee cap put back in place a ligaments reattached and cartilidge attached. And that I shouldn't be given morphine or whatever the hell else they were given me.  I bursted into tears saying I am not drug seeking or addicted to drugs.  I take them as they directed and don't over use them.  I never had a problem with addiction to drugs.  And I don't use them to hide my mental issues.  I was in considerable amount of pain then I felt like he deserved a slap in the face.  Because he is not a shrink and doesn't know anything about mental disorders.  I was really nervous because I started twitching and picking at my ear.  He knows about my anxiety and ****.  But that doesn't mean he has to use it against me.  
 I think this is patient abuse in every single way.  He did give me seven days worth only of pain killers even though it will take over 6 weeks to heal fully and probably longer.  I don't know about the pain though.  I hope he is right that it goes away in a week.  Although I've spoken to a lot of people that have gotten ligaments only torn and they say they have had to take pain killers for a month which I hope isn't the case.  
 I mean does he think I feel good on these things.  Yes they make the pain go away but no.  I think he thinks I'm one of those disabled bums that is drug seeking.  He hates that I don't have a job.  Although I've been actively seeking a job and doing something on side as well.  After I left there I didn't even feel like I wanted to live because he humiliated me so bad.  He also said that the crutches I was walking on couldn't hold my weight and I was like what do you mean they have a 300 lb weight capacity and I'm 200lbs?  At that point I just wanted to get the hell out of there but you know I was just so down at that point I felt like I wanted to jump out of a window figuratively.  Seriously I don't know what kind of doctor or monster does this to a patient who has anxiety problems and pain at the same time and just gotten over surgery.  I don't act like a baby when I have pain.  I just wanted to know should I sue this doctor?  Or I mean just state a grievance against him?  I mean what would you do in that situation?  
 See this is why I hate shrinks or doctors that think they are when they aren't.  They make me out to be a real mental patient.  Well I hope you could give me a little advice on what to do.  Because everyone thinks he is this great doctor.  All the nurses do.  Then there is my mom who thinks he is kind of a jerk.  I am not going to him again or I may file a law suit if I end up in the mental hospital for making me feel depressed.  Its just I had to get this off my mind.