I received an email from my brother-in-law that we have not heard from in years because of his threats and bizzarr beBurgess sent you a message on Facebook... Chris sent you a message. Re: you look HORRIBLE! "thats a much better pic, but that skinny look, hope your not dying! that anemic/bolemic kind of look.. Oh gee EVERYONE says hi huh? even Peanut? golly your two kids too? I just BET you said " OH gee everybody, look, LOOK!! Chris wrote us!! and "everybody" just dropped everything they were doing and gave a collective HELLOOOOO! to the wonderful Uncle/younger brother. well here is my hello back to ya all! =UCK OFF you A...HOLE -UCKS! If I ever see you -UCKS in my life, it'll be too soon...thanks much for the kind response. Damn Liar! BTW on your very frequint trips to MN. how is the affair going with oh I don't know, you've got to be screwing somebody since Peanut's back has been out for years. Is that what we see taking its toll so very heavy as we view your pictures? No need to answer that, or anything else. Thanks again so much for the collective hello from your family to mine. P.S. keep on trying new pics, SOMETHING has to look like your not so damn anemic! Isn't it you that always said I'm just not myself? well Jackie poo poo, here is all of myself for you and your loved ones to see! BEE AH CH! and a giant one at that! goodbye good riddance!"havior.  I am attaching it to see if you can diagnose the issue by reading such a bizarre letter.
 Please tell me if you think my family could possibly be in danger.  He has made threats to my husbands parents.  We have never started a fight or said anything to him ever that would trigger this.  He also has left very bizarre messages on our answering machine about following his father - having pictures etc.  and he speaks in a very monotone voice when he leaves these types of messages.
 I'm scared for my family and don't know what to do.  He lives on the west coast and we live on the east coast.  The distance makes me feel better but i still worry about my husbands parents that live within four hours of him.  I know someone who's father committed murder - suicide with his son.  I know these things can happen.