It's true there is not comfort in the truth. Medicine is bitter. I know i have good thing on my head a good wave but life is so much complex. It's so hard to mantain. No matter whatever i can be the main thing is i must be mental time after time. I can be the chef but i was happy at kitchen where i used to go mad time after time for 2 days. That job has collasped later. If i wont get mad machine will make me mad at any place. My relations with any could damage. Different things could happen. Well I tried not to be angery or worry when someone is angry. But it's all scientific that I get reflection of wave(not a bad wave) when somebody get angry. And that increase my nervous ness and i became little bit slow on work but I try to come down inside cause i am known. But non of the things are bad from health point of view it's just complex things. Next in sex and masturbate experiement. when i do sex only i found blood pressure high, heart attack, then spontanous, when i do masturbate i got nervous at work, hard to do simple thing though i am confident, I have humour and experience either. I spent long time in a smile environment. Ya obviously smile brings good harmone so feels easy but not perfect. This disease has not any perfect solutions. All the things are necessary and all the things are imperfect. But there is only one gain that I don't have to do heart lungs and kidney operation again and again in old age becaue i die everyday. So the best medicine for mental people is get mad time after time. If i cannot go mad time after time, the technology will bring lots of problem which makes me mad and happens relation bad, unstable. The two day kitchen hand job was good where i used to get communicate with machine and get mad. Whenever i get mad that day i can wake up early in the morning and feel fresh. Nowadays i am not getting mad thus i feel hard to wake up, I don't know how to do psychic exercise safely and mantain everything. Next amazing experiement. Many time i go to do sex. Actually what happened is if i do masturbate near the lady either it works as a sex. Because my wave reflects from lady's body. But if i masturbate at home,. then it works like a masturbate, it make nervous. This is amazing. Next thing whenever i try to feel any lady with love. I started to get sick. life is so complex.  Next experiement, medicine try to reduce madness though it cannot erase the madness but if madness didnot happen  i haveto reduce medicine then i will go mad any how because i start to get extra thoughts by machine. I have realised that psysic exercise is very very very important. I want to do psysic exercise at least 2 days a week but in a safe way and in a exact 2 days.