This is something I posted on Yahoo Answers, but I wanted serious, proffessional opinions. It is quite long as I struggle to explain, so bear with me....
 A few years ago, I was a tough guy. The toughest guy in fact. Trained 4 hours a day, did Muay Thai, go into quite a number of fights when I was younger, got shot at and shot back at people, rough existence. I was never scared of anyone or anything, although I regret that part of my life, I've come to accept the fact I was a different and mean person back then.
Then, when I had my kids, I changed drastically. Had to stop trainning because my youngest got sick and money problems started piling on.
Yet, for the past like, 3-4 weeks, I,ve started DRASTICALLY changing for reasons I don't know. I feel like I'm slipping into insanity, for lack of a better explanation.
 I watched about 4 months ago, by almost random accident, a compilation of plane crashes. Since then, for an absolutely unknown reason, I can't sleep at night. There's an airport on the island where I live, big commercial airport. We hear planes over our heads every 30 mins or so. I've started developing a paralysing, almost irrational fear of one crashing and killing me and my kids. I don't know where this came from, but my heart starts beating so bad I feel like I'm having a heart attack. I've never had these before and I have a LOT of trouble controlling it, a guy who used to pride himself on his self-control....
Second, tornados. We had some storms recently and the same type of fear as the above keeps me awake whenever it rains. I'm deathly scared. Once made a mad dash for the basement because I thought "that was it"....completely irrational.
Third, my new neighbors are complete jerks, not to mention a criminal gang. Music so loud and crazy at all times of the day, threats to neighboors.
I spent about 4 hours yesterday with my head spinning and almost grabbing my baseball bat and kill the whole lot of them. A few years ago I wouldn't even have hesitated.
But I fear them. I started being afraid of everything and anything, uncontrollably so, for no reason. I don't know what's going on. I even fear calling the cops because they have a police scanner and I fear them trying to kill my kids......
 So my question is, what the hell is wrong with me?
Why am I suddenly afraid of everything and can Ido anything to stop it? I really feel like my heart will blow up every time and it leaves me with HUGE headaches afterwards....
 Reading the last bit makes me look a lil bit out of my mind LOL. 
I'm not. I'm a real rational person actually. I used to be a mean son of a gun, but not anymore. Only thing makes me mad is the neighboors, but the problem I have I want solve is these inexplicable "panic attacks" of fear I've never had before. And when I mean crippling, I mean it prevents me from doing activities I used to do. Sometimes I'll be walking down the street and hear a plane and DUCK on a sidewalks because I feel it's "coming down too low". My kids laugh at me and I laugh with them, but....this isn't me.
Don't worry, I won't kill my neighbhors. I wanted to beat them up bad, but like I said...I'm getting afraid for no reason. I actually feel like my head is going to burst when it happens. I don't know how to explain this.
 Oh and I don't take medication. i'm as fit as a fiddle according to the docs. I went numerous times at the hospital because I started developing trouble breathing (probably because of smoking.....) all at once, especially in the mornings. They disagree on asthma, they disagree on everything. So no medication and I endure even though I cough so much in the morning I feel like I'm going to choke to death. I also only have my kids every weekend out of 2, so thank God, they don't get to see the worst of these attacks...
 Another ridiculous example.I can't control it. It's ruining my life. Sometimes I don't go out because I'm afraid...something will happen. It's ridiculous. I didn't go and buy more coffee yesterday because I was afraid to pass by my neighbhors home, afraid he'd insult me like he does with the whole neighborhood (except me as of now), me getting angry, trying to off that guy and then getting off-ed myself. The whole concept terrorises me.....
 I should also mentioned my neighbors are members of a notorious known gang of criminals in my city. But since it's a known "unknown" fact they buy off the cops, whenever I call them, they don't show up.
 Way back when, I used to get these...rages all the time. I could focus them and fight. Sometimes I still get them, I get so ANGRY I could literally make a hole in the wall and go kill everyone in the appartement next door and laugh like Hell while doing it... but then, not to mention the fact it's a crime and it disgusts me even though sometimes I feel like I have no choice, all that hatred turns to fear in a second and leaves me shaking like a freaking leaf without strenght in my bones. I have to sit down when that happens.
Am I really going mental, do I have a mental problem?