I have a question about my brothers relationship. 
He met this woman about 3 months ago. She is recently divorced, She is a devout baptist and my brother is an agnostic, but with his BPD he becomes what she is, He now runs around saying he never said he did not believe in god and some other things that are a bit strange. I will give you an example of how he morphs into who he is around. 
He was around family friends and they were on the vol. fire dept. he went on the VFD, then when he moved to Wichita he had a college buddie move into his spare bed, and becasue he went into the army he wanted to play army and almost went into the service. 
He has done this over and over again, one time when I built a couple of models, he went out and bought very high dollar air brush kit and other items that he never even used. 
 I understand that BPD is the reason that he mirrors the people he is around, My question is I would bet my last $ that he is only getting along with her becasuse he is hiding his real personality. 
How long before he can not hold back his out bursts and let the real person stand out?
If he could hide it forever, it would be the first time in his life he would have done so.
The strange thing is that this woman is 35 yo  and she seems at this point in time be an enabler, 
When my brother moved down to Wichita from Michigan, I rented out his home and packed his stuff in to a shed I bought and dropped at his home, sold his home, and then rented a truck on my Credit card used my time to drive it down to him, then paid myself back with the sale of the home for my out of pocket $. DId not make a dime. 
Now a couple years later I have heard him tell people "it was hard moving my stuff down here, I remember renting the truck and driving that POS all the way down here"  I never once got a thank you. And I asked for one favor and when there was a bit of trouble he got all upset at me for a phone call he had to take about a missing package in the mail. 
He lived with my other brother in a 1 bed. apt and did not even look for work when he moved, His brother who lived in Michigan at the time had to do a fake break in to his home to get him insurance money to rent an apt. He finaly got a job at sherwinwilliams and now acts like he singlhandedly has saved the world because he went to night school to get his deg. for nursing. He is either on the ground looking at his 45 [and we have seen this in reality] or he is acting like he is so superior to all the other ants and "uneducated idiots" [his words] of the world are so inferior to him. 
 Can any one tell me how people with this BPD start to destroy their "perfect" relationship?
Do they start out [people with bpd] all gushing and loving with a new relationship, then go down from their?
How long before the real personality comes out in a new relation ship.
How bad in  an uninformed enabler to a person with BPD?