Hello everyone. I'm currently having some problems with my treatment and I was hoping someone could help me out or just share experiences. Long post ahead, sorry for that :(
 I was diagnosed with depression a little over 2 months ago. The depression was triggered by a stressful situation at college, which also caused me a lot of stress and anxiety. At first I was put on Fluoxetine, Clonazepam (0,25 during the day if I ever felt very anxious) and Zolpidem at night, since I was having trouble sleeping. I also decided to postpone college for one semester in order to get some rest.
 After 10 days on Fluoxetine, when the initial dose was increased, I experienced some really bad side effects, like extreme agitation and complete lack of appetite. Because of depression I was already underweight, so my psychiatrist decided to switch me to Sertraline instead, to keep me from losing more weight. The first week I still had some nasty adverse effects like insomnia, sweaty hands and feet, lack of appetite and insomnia. I also stopped taking Clonazepam during the day, but instead I stared taking 0,5 mg and 5 mg of Zolpidem at night, which has helped my sleeping patterns.  
 After the first week or so, the adverse effects slowly disappeared and my mood improved a lot. I was honestly loving Sertraline, because it made me feel the way I was before the depressive episode and it also improved my anxiety. About two weeks ago, I started getting diarrhea. At first it didn't bother me, because I spend most of my time at home and I just though it would eventually go away like the other adverse effects. Plus, compared to feeling miserable and crying everyday, it was something I could tolerate. However, it hasn't really stopped and my psychiatrist told me it might not go away, and that she wanted to change me to Venlafaxine. Honestly, my first reaction was OH NO, NOT AGAIN. Not another new medication. She told me diarrhea is keeping me from gaining weight and might damage my colon if it goes on. Now, I didn't think it was such a big deal and I was considering to just keep taking Sertraline until the diarrhea was gone, but this week I started having stomach pain. I've also felt dizzy and woke up with vertigo the other day. I feel week and I guess it's because my body really isn't absorbing the nutrients I need anymore.
 This being said... should I switch to Venlafaxine or give Sertraline one last try this upcoming week and see if the symptoms get better? I'm just feel really frustrated right now because I don't want to go through another adjustment period again, and having to face more side effects again. I even thought about slowly weaning off Sertraline, thinking that since I'm not going to college anymore I'll still feel a lot calmer and may not need the anti depressants at all. I know the minimum treatment for depression is six months... but I just don't know anymore.
 Sorry again for the long post... help please :(