My bfs son is 19. He lives in a camper outside my house. All I ask of him is to clean up after himself. He doesn't think he should have to. My bf is a truck driver so he is never here. Anytime I say anything to him, he says I am putting him in the middle. Jr works in a factory, pays no rent, expects me to buy his food. If I get on to him for something, he goes strait to his dad. If I tell his dad, jr tells me I need to take it up with him. He refuses to wash his dishes, there are grease spots on almost every cabinet door where we has rubbed his knees up against it. I bought a freezer, he broke the lock on it, although he wasn't supposed to be in it. He gets grease all over the fridge. I just scrubbed the kitchen top to bottom a few weeks before he done this. He expects me to drop what I am doing to help him, yet if I ask him to do something that will take 2 minutes, he takes 3 minutes explaining why he can't. The other day I told my son to come in and do his chores. Jr laughed at him and told him he didn't have to do anything around the house. Today I went in their bathroom. When he moved out (only for 2 weeks )-;) I paid $20 to have the bathroom cleaned from top to bottom. Now there is grease all over the shower walls, and there are 2 different intentional designs drawn in the wall and cabinet with grease. I have not told his dad because he is not home, so it will do no good. Won't do any good anyways. The other day I told jr yet again that he needed to clean up after himself, he replys back to "practice what yew preach" yeah he is 19 and cannot spell you. Anyways, I am the ONLY one who cleans the house, noone cleans up after me, so I do not understand his comment. I am stressed, I can't eat, im sick, I want to cry, I hate feeling this way. The easy way to get rid of stress is to get rid of what causes it. Well, unless I get rid of my bf, which I couldn't imagine doing, I do not see any way to get rid of the stress. I feel there is nothing I can do and I am about to break.