Please help me.  My 22 yr old daughter lives out of state and in Feb after very stressful things going on in her life, she had delusions of self blame saying sorry all the time - and had to be hospitalized for 2 wks. Twice I flew there to be with her during that time, but had to go back to work.  She was on Serroquel for 1 wk while there, then they changed her to Geodon 20mg.  After 1 week of being home, she was having delusions again.  She called her Dr who told her to take 80mg daily.  She is a petite gal and thought that was alot, so she instead takes 40mg at nite now.  She is getting better regarding her delusions - but still feels crappy, and hates the side effects.  She has lactation, really bad headaches, very sleepy after taking them at night, then she wakes up in the nite later and is very restless, anxious and agitated.  She doesnt like that she still isnt normal feeling.  Her Dr spaced out her Dr appts to 1 month after hospital discharge and she called Dr the other day and will be going next week instead and wants to try Serroquel again.  She is applying for State insurance but you would think Dr would monitor her more closely with these meds. 
  I dont like her to be alone going thru this illness with no family there, and she doesnt seem to care that we arent there for that matter. Maybe its the medication causing her to feel numb. There is nothing I can do to help, and as a Mother, that is hard to accept. She moved there 1 year ago and wants to go to college there.  I am nervous now that the stress of work and college may be too much for her.  She wants to be independent and get back to work even with her feeling not right yet, She has been off work Feb and now all of March.  I know Drs want to get her stabilized on her meds.    I worry about how she is, and about the side effects she describes and also about those antipsychotic meds causing suicide.   I do know it is trial and error to get the right medication.  She was only diagnosed with severe stress episode, but I still think she may have Bipolar because it runs in her father's side of family.   She doesnt even know if her diagnosis is accurate and they just want to  medicate her, as she says.    
 It seems like a long process, and she is very impatient.  Any thoughts or comments is appreciated.  Thank you for listening.