Im just wondering if I can get some opinions on this issue.  I was with my ex botfriend for 2 years. We broke up 8 months ago....
 Within this time he was very emotionally abusive towards me. I did not realise this at the time. Just a few examples, he would put me down about what i was wearing on a night out if it wasn't a mini skirt (which is what he wanted me to wear), he would call me names and when id say stop, they're not nice, he would say Im just messing. you're to serious. Of course Id think I was being to serious etc. He cheated on me with his ex and with a few more women to. I stayed with him thinking it would get better. It didn't, things just got worse.
 He went away on a lads weekend, I didnt want him to go cause he was just after cheating, I asked him not to, explained I did not trust him enough yet and he lost the plot, saying I have to get over myself and that I was a drama queen. He went and of course I felt bad because "i caused the arguement" according to him.
 My main issues is this. On a few occasions something happened that only recently has been upsetting me. We would be lying in bed watching tv, fully clothed. He would want sex and there were times I was not in the mood.  On a few occasions he "forced" me to have sex. I would say "No Im not in the mood, i just want to cuddle" but he wouldn't take no for an answer, he would continued to try and have sex with me. I would push his hands away and say "no" but he was just so persistant. he would keep going, begging me. On one occasion, he rolled me over and started undoing my pants, i said no.... He kept going. I said to stop but he said "Dont be a b!tch"... Every single time we ended up having sex when i didnt want to.  I have just recently told my mom about this and she said it was rape, but Im not sure if it is... I was his g/f and well, must have been my fault cause I stayed with him... So it cant be rape in my opinion.
 I have ben suffering from bad anxiety for a while now, involving intrusive thoughts. The anxiety started while I was in the relationship and has been up and down since.
 My questions is, can this type of relationship cause anxiety with intrusive thoughts? And if so, will i ever get better???
 Thanks for yer advise in advance.