To literally go off of the deep end.  I'm a highly educated, intelligent woman, 4 year education, yada yada.  Very independent very woman power all of that stuff but not quite a feminist.  I was in a relationship on and off with a man for 15 years, married for 4.  He asked for a divorce eariler in the year.  I agreed, things just weren't the same, he was staying out a lot but he's a musician and I just wasn't handling it well anymore.   I don't like to go out and I honestly wish he would just grow up.  Anyway he decided to have an affair Labor Day weekend before our papers were even signed and sent and taken to the courthouse.  Of course his affair ended  badly, she was a bar psycho that he traveled to another state to see.  Now we are legally divorced and he is seeing someone else.  Not sexually (yet) but he has met her young daughter and her ex husband.  She is really nice and he is trying not to hurt her, he says. 
   Here comes my problem:  When we agreed to get divorced, I was relieved.  I was so ready to have the house all to myself and not worry about him all hours of the night, what he was doing, who he was texting and on and on.  When he told me about the affair it made me mad but also made me want him more!  The second time he went out of state and he confirmed he wanted to be with her, I ended it between us sexually as I was absolutely crushed.  Like I said it ended badly with them as she found out he was legally married when they hooked up the first time.  Fast forward to NOW  with this other girl.  She is a real basic sort of girl, no muss no fuss, has a little girl and he said she is really sweet.  Ex and I got back in contact because he was having issues with his car.  You can draw your conclusions from there.  It has been absolutely electric this time. We have been doing everything from watching TV with the kids to making dirty videos together.  OUr love life is better than ever but he is absolutely not ready to stop with the other women and all of that.  We spent all night together last night, went out, had a blast but he is supposed to go out with the other woman tonight. I am so crushed.  Again.  I cry all the time.  It takes everything I can do not to cry in the grocery store. 
   And here comes my question.  Before you blast me...I KNOW THIS IS INSANE!! Trust me.  I am an extremely strong independent woman, bought my own home, my own vehichles, was a single mother and raised my children.  How in the H-E-double hockey sticks did I get myself into this? I was always the self-proclaimed I-don't-need-a-man kind of woman. So how am i so deep in (love?? lust??) this relationship with this man who has done nothing but tell me it's over?  i know in my head it is physical and yes absolutely I need to stop sleeping with him so don't bother saying that.  But the heart wants what it wants.  
 So thoughts other than stop sleeping with him...something to cause a lightbulb to come over my head:  Am I just trying to control him? Am i just pining for days past? Am I afraid to move on? I really would love therapy but I can't afford it now that i'm a single mother of two teenagers with a mortgage.   Surely I can't be the only strong single female who has gotten trapped in this kind of web? How the heck do I get out of it and keep my sanity too?