This is so very difficult to even share with anyone. After so many yers of managing and juggling all problems say on my on, without anybody's help, I am having no more strenght to goo on and the only reason I still find strenght to fight and go on are mt children. I have twoo sons with my husband 9 and 2 and they are my only reason to go on. I have made a decision, that I am going to talk to my husband and I am going t ask him for us o separate and eventually divorce. This was never my plan. And Ii am one of those people who are trying everything else before they mak such a decision. But, for the 13 years of life together, now I am at a point when I just cant go like this anymore. I believe families should talk and resolve problems together. However, every attempt to discuss anything of value to me, turns in the next minute to not important subject and there is my husband talking about something totaly different. In the last year my husband start showing very impulsive behavour. Now h is Ok and next minute he is swearing, using abusive words and shouting in the fron of the kids and me. He never hit me so far. But now on two ocassions he threw a bottle of wather at me and a pack full of apple juice. Now I am becoming scared, for m and the kids, and although he loves his children, I don't believe, he is good example for them anymore. He tells me to shut up so he does not get angry, but most of the time I spend my days in silence and I catch myself talking to myself things, I would like too tell me. Our both children love him, but are also scared of him. 
As I know, he will never listen to me and what I have to say, I am in process of writing a very long letter and let him know how I really feel. I am really scared how he will react too this , but I have made my mind and there is no return. I just don't know how I will cope with everything on my own, but even so I do everyhting on my own, so there is possibly my worry that there is no one supporting m mentaly and emotionaly. Our older child has been also diagnosed with ADHD and Oppositional Deffiance Disorder and my husband shows no understanding about it. He says "there is no such thing and he needs a good slap round the year and a discipline" But , our child goes to a special school where to teach him how to deal with his condition and We should show him best support at home and work together with al the strategies in place. However, when I say something my husband says the opposite and is confusing the situation instead of supporting me. This way he confusing the kids, our older son start manipulating the situation and the little one has got the totally wrong example. 
I think this is quite a lot for beginning, although is very little from our real situation. 
But, I will appreciate any word of advice. 
Thank you in advance.