well its a long story and idk where to start. i have a dad the i think malested me when i was 3. my mom and me moved out of his house 2 to 3 years ago. since then we have moved around a bit but its been better then living with him. he is also bypolor(sp?) in other words he has something wrong in his head that makes him kinda crazy hard to explain. but mom says hes doing "better" well since we have been in the place when  we are now which we have been in for almost a year i have found this guy who i have fallin in love with. we have been off and on for a year and now we been going strong for 2 and a half months. well mom says were moving back in with dad. ill be moving back in on the 15 of dec. we have already stated moving. well that means moving away from my friends and boy friend which sucks. thats problem one. problem 2 is with my boyfriend. me and him fight a lot. he has cheated on every girl hes been with. but hes not that bad of a guy he just comes from a really really ****** up home life. but im always scared he will cheat or do something to hurt me its hard to explain. problem 3. im trying to figure out a way to help my boyfriend. his step dad abuses him his mom is an alcoholic who dont care he does druges to take away the pain. he had 2 older brothers who moved out and have lives and 2 younger brothers the older ones are half brothers. the jason who is 2 years younger is his real brother then theres a half brother whos like 5 the younges is his step dads son so he is always treated best and gets away with every thing. jason is treated ok. hes not beat bu no one pays ation to him he can stay out and never go home for days and no one cares. he stayes with me and his bro at my house they basicly lived there till resently. but jimmy he never lives there hasnt for 3 months. the only time mom cared where he was was when she need him to clean watch little bros cook. do the youngest home work. step dad abused him. there just were alot of probelms. well this last time step dad hit him he ran away and mom called him in as a run away like she really cared but he had court  cases for some stuff he did and she was scarred he wouldnt show which ment she would go to jail. so she got him back and had his real dad come and get him. she said he did drugs was failing 4 classes lived with me. and that we were having sex. and all this other stuff that was true but still he did them all as a cry for help and cause he wanted ppl to care. him and his bro jason call my mom mom and jason calls me sis and its like were a little family but now that dad has him i never get to see him. i thought him living with his real dad would be good but his real dad is really crazy he is stuck in the army days and lies and hes a big big problem and jimmy knows but tries to hide it i just feel like i need to help and dont know how. hes a hard person to talk to. hes never really open up to ppl no more because ppl turn there backs and leave him so he keeps it to him self and hides it and i want to help. well i have more problem but heres a start. and oh i have deprestion. im a messed up kid hard to explain but will soon. oh and me and my man have ****** with out con. cause we are waiting on pills and we were stupid and im scared i might end up pregnant?