Since I was young, my mother hasn't held a job, kept friends and was always extremely controlling, obsessive compulsive, and I always thought she was crazy. She was highly neglectful ( I was 10 watching a 4 year old and baby until 2 in the morring), she never puts her highly intelligent mind towards one thing, one goal for too long, she was always in and out of physically/mentally abusive relationships (her being the abuser, but it was also reciprocated).  For the past few years, having so much time on her hands because she doesn't work, and my younger siblings are all in school, she has a lot of time to use her imagination to create fake problems. She has sat me down, on at lease 5 occasions, to tell me she's dying of all different types of cancer, or has some other serious illness. Over the past few years she has also become, pretty much, obsessed with all types of disorders. First it was ADHD, her and everyone around her, she diagnosed them with that. She had more illnesses between that and the next severe disorder. She asid she had hypoglycemia, then everyone around her had it aswell. She went as far as faking a seizure, buying gluecose and these weird shakes to keep her sugar level balanced, and took vitamins aswell. Every conversation had to do with hypoglycemia, it was an obsession. During my pregnany she was forcing me, by telephone,  to get tested for it because she thought it was such a serious disorder. Doctor's run tests to make sure that you sugar levels are correct because you can get diabetes during pregnancy only. I was tested, and I was fine. Trying to explain that to her was not easy, she tried convincing me that meybe I don't have it, but my child still could. We even stopped talking for months because I wouldn't push a test out of the doctor for my unborn child. I told her not to worry every conversation we had and that if my child has it, then I will make sure he eats every  few hours...that it wasn't a big deal. Her rsponse was "YOU'RE GOING TO F**** UP YOU CHILD!" There was a large arguement where all honesty was put on the table, then her and I didn't talk for atleast 4 months. The only reason why we began talking again was because I called her didn't ask for any apologies (she told my older sister she wanted an aplogogy fromme) and never brought it up again. Well, now she says she has Aspergers syndrome. It is crystal clear, to me, that she has never had this problem, it has come out of nowhere. She has always been extremely social, honestly a little too social and open with others, she even went to school (for a short time) for broadcasting, she has excellent communication skills especially when explaining how strongly she feels about something, it is obvious she doesn't have it. But now she's saying that my brothers and sisters have Aspergers too. She even tried convincing my husband that he has it. She bring herself and the kids to the doctor, if they don't give her the diagnosis she wants they're the worst doctors in the world, they're wrong, and she changes doctors. Now I'm at the point where I have tried to confront her about her faking illnesses problem, and she won't even talk to me. She's actually "disgusted" by me and "wants nothing to do with" me. A few months ago, she was calling me daily (we live on opposite sides of the country) and talking for hours, now she hates my guts.  Only myself and one other person has ever confronted her about all of her lies. Everyone else is scared, she puts fear in people. Also, past history includes: suicidal attempts 9even in front of  me at age 13), in and out of mental hospitals since she was 17, 5 kids by 5 different fathers, I attended 15 schools without being an army brat, my younger brother who is only 16 has also attended 15 schools. She's always best friends with the neighbors then, all of a sudden they're the devil basically and she'll move almost immediately and most likey  get restraing orders on them. This isn't even the half of it either. Everyone goes along with what she says because if you disagree, in any way, you're the sum of the earth abd she will never tlak to you again.... well until she forgets about it. I fear that my younger sibling are in a bad environment because she tries to push these different diagnoses onto them. She can also be cruel and mistreat them. She doesn't want help, she doesn't think she has one problem wrong with her... that I'm the crazy one. Before her and I began fighting, I asked her how many doctors she thinks  she has visited over the past year and she at first said she couldn't count, then she said it had to be over 20 or 30! She's got major problems, and I don't have anyone that can help guide me in the right direction. I don't know what to do anymore. My 16 year old brother lives with me right now because she kicked him out of the house on the NY/CA border, to go on a greyhound to boston, to live with his unfit father who hasn't been in his life since he was a little boy, then his father sent him out to the west coast with me. I fear that my mother will have an outrageous fit next, and probably call the police and say I kidnapped him or something. I'm not joking either, please help!!