Hello, so I just Google a few words and found this website. Here's my story and I would like some advice if you could help.
I got married at the age of 15. To my high school sweetheart.  A few years went by then the abuse and controlling started. It was verbal at first then it was where are u going, who where u with, why are u 2 minutes late, I worked and at every job I had ever had. I was screwing someone. So he thought.  6 years later came our first child then 17 months our 2nd. I was 9 months pregnant when he was at work one day to help a lady on the highway and a suv smashed in into the car he was pushing. when I got the call to go to the ER  I found out that he had several injuries.  A brain injury was one. He had to have intensive rehab I had our 2nd child without him there. We were all back under on roof. One day he got upset with me and hit me with his crutches. I call the law on him he went to jail. Said he would change, and he did then we had yet another child. Now remember the controlling part of this relationship was always there. One day I said enough was enough so I took my kids went to my parents too almost all the money out of the bank. Told him I was done. He called me over and over saying he was going to commit suicide.  I prayed for him then my sister calls him mistakenly and she got him to go on a men's retreat.  He went I even supported him through it. That didn't last here I am 1 year later called the cops yet again got a protective order against him he can have supervised visits with his kids, this weekend was his and he was worried about me and what I am going to do and now I'm here with my kiddos when it was his turn. Now I do love this man and yet again he says he is changing. He actually is going to counseling stop drinking and smoking, sent me flowers to work, he is trying. But! I am not falling for it. Don't get me wrong I love this man I have only known him. The protective order last 1 year. I took everything from him. Me and the kids are in the house I have my own car I still work and my support group right now are my parents. I am scared because I don't want him back but I don't want him to hurt.....