I have not really been on any forums before,  and just wanted to get some advice.  
 I am female.  I suspect my male partner has BPD but is undiagnosed.  I have mentioned it to him a few times over the last couple of years when I started researching how he acts,  but this week I had a productive talk with him and opened up about his feelings for the first time.  I would like to know what to do next in order to help him.  
 To cut a long story as short as possible,  he has had a difficult childhood,  with physical, emotional and sexual abuse,  and struggled with school. He has been inolved in a lot of violence,  been in and out of prison for reckless behaviours like drugs, driving etc.   I met him 8 years ago,  when he was in a fiery relationship with another girl.  They two children.  When they split up and we got together,  he put me on a pedestal,  wanted to move in, propose straight away etc.  Then after a few months,  I suspected infidelity a few times with his ex.  However he had a story for everything and even though evidence was staring me in the face,  still convined myself it was not happening.  We started looking after his children at weekends etc. and he often asks them to confirm how much they love him etc.  He often asks me this too.  He soon soon started being very up and down - either I was on the pedestal,  or being treated like s*it all the time - ie. bullying behaviour,  degrading comments and insults from him all the time.  I became aware that he was abusing alcohol,  and he has physically assaulted me several times,  mainy over little things.  He also took my cars off me several times when he was drunk and had crashes etc.  
 After a few years of talking to him,   he agreed to go on an alochol detox program and has since reduced his alcohol intake significantly,  but then substituted this for heroin use.  He will sell anything to get his next dose,  lie about it,  borrows money off everyone and compulsively lies.  Sometimes he admits about taking it,  and tells me he feels guilty and wants to stop,  but is very easily lead by others.  
 He  thinks in a 'black and white' fashion,  described by other people who suffer with this condition.  He eventually cut all ties with his ex,  but then began a relationship with another girl.  Again,   evidence was staring me in the face,  but I stayed with him.  I put it down to the fact that he was stressed with me sometimes because I was on edge a lot about is drinking and drug taking,  so thought that as this girl was an alcoholic as well,  he felt relaxed sometimes around her because she didn't know about his underlying problems and was always on hand to lend him money etc.  Again he denied having done anything with her.  
 He often idealises and then deidealises certain people - one minute they are his best friend,  the next he is fighting physically with them etc.  He recently got arrested for stabbing someone and is in court on Monday.  I was talking to him the other night,  and he said that he has always felt empty and doesn't know what having  real friends are - said all his friends all his life have been either taking advantage of him or he takes advantage o them.  All the people he associates with are young lads etc.  that don't work and are alcohoics or drug addicts.  He says he feels he relates to these people more than the people I introduce him to,  as he feels on edge around people in social situations as he fears not having anything to say and being ignored etc. He then told me he had never had any motivation do achieve anything in his life since he was little,  felt empty inside and feels detatched from people,  even though he appears to be over the top with certain friends,  ie seems to want certain people around all the time,  even if it means we have no time alone together becasue he constantly invites them round etc.  Also said he does't know who he is inside and is scared of being alone. He jumps straight into a relationship even if it is inappropriate,  each time he has come out of a previous relationship.  A couple of times I told him I was leaving him,  due to the infidelity evidence. He gets aggressive when this happens,  then rings me the next day begging forgiveness but still denies doing anything with the girls.
 He was told during childhood,  that the person he thought was his father wasn't, and only recently met his biological father.  He said he knows he lies a lot but cant help himself.  Sometimes I think he believes the lies he tells. He has also self harmed,  and told me it is a release of pain that otherwise he would have to be violent in order to release. He has also had couple of suicide attempts and threatened suicide on occasions. He told me also that if I ever left him,  he would hook up with this girl I suspect he has been having the affair with,  purely to avoid being alone.
 He asked me after this discussion,  if I would discuss what he told me with his GP. However,  he is likely to be going to prison on Monday, so I do not know how to go about getting him assessed.  He said he thought that the symptoms I discussed with him sounded like how he feels.  He has been on antidepressents for about a year - but I understand that these conditions can't be diagnosed or tested for properly until no drugs or alcohol are in the person's system.  If he is in prison,  this will obviously be the case,  but I won't be there to go to the appts .with him etc. 
 When he gets angry at everyone else,  including his family,  they get angry back and end up making him worse.  I never get angry,  but just try to talk to him about what he has said or done at a stage when he is calmer etc. 
 Is there anyone out there who could advise me as to what action to take next,  and whether or not his symptoms and behaviour sound like those of BPD?
 Sorry it is long!!!!!
 Thank you.