My husband and I dated for 6 years (did not live together) and have been married for almost 15 years. We're both 41 now. While we were dating, we pretty much never fought and he treated me just great -- he never looked at other women or asked me to change anything about myself, nor did he judge or criticize me. This was the kind of man I had hoped to meet some day! While we dated, he was attracted to the fact that I was a strong-willed, assertive, self-sufficient person who was self-confident and knew how to get things done. Even though we dated for 6 years, I really wasn't on any particular timetable as to getting married, but we talked about our future and we assumed we'd get married some day. When he bought me a ring and proposed, it was a huge surprise to me, but I knew it was right and said yes. About 6 months after we married, he became the complete opposite person he'd been while we were dating. He started looking at other women right in front of me, he judged and criticized my opinions and appearance (subtly at first, then more outright and negatively). He started looking at porn (which I never knew him to do previously although he's admitted that he's looked at it since early teens) and his use of it has become increasingly more frequent. He quickly got to the point where he voiced to me his strong opinions on what I should wear and how much time I should (not) spend w/my family -- to whom he knew I had always been close.He has treated me this way even though I've done alot of the things that he's said I should do as to my appearance, and I’ve tried to change what I'm interested in and the way I spend my time in order to be more like he wants.  I'm angry with him for doing this to me, but I am capable of forgiving him, and I do each time, but then he eventually repeats his negativity, criticism and anger toward me. We are both highly educated and have achieved professionally success. 10 months ago, we had a baby after he'd decided that parenthood was something we "should" do since we are getting "old." I'd always wanted to be a mom, so that was OK w/me even though I'd made it known to him that I hoped to adopt. Regardless, we got pregnant right away and that was great. I wasn't sure how that would change him in the way he treated me but I hoped for the best. I was wrong -- when I was 8 months pregnant, he started having a mid-life crisis and wanted to be 25 again -- spending late nights out w/the 20-somethings he worked with. He got text messages that were questionably racy (although I know he hasn't cheated on me) and I found out he has still been looking at porn. Three days after I had my baby, he called me a hermit and said I should be up and around and bringing in company. A few weeks later, he criticized my weight and told me I let myself go during my pregnancy (I only gained 45 pounds and I'm now only about 4 pounds away from my pre-pregnancy weight).  I recently was asked why I let myself get pregnant, given my unhappy marital state. I had to think long and hard about why I permitted myself to get pregnant after 13 years of a very painful marriage. I didn't want to say “no” because it would have caused a fight and it would be one more thing for him to criticize me about and bring up as a reason why I'm not a good wife. I realize now that this is a lousy reason, given that I risked bringing an innocent child into an otherwise unhappy home -- and sure enough, exactly that thing happened. I should be very clear though -- I do not regret the decision to try to get pregnant, because I am crazy in love with our son. During our marriage, he's shared w/me that he had a bad temper as a teen and that he's angry about what he says was a too-high level of control that his parents maintained over him during his childhood. He's not a jealous person (as to me).  Nevertheless, every time I call him OUT when he becomes, critical, judgmental or angry with me, he blames me almost entirely for his anger, for his use of porn, for his unhappiness in life personally and professionally and for a long list of other things. He says he wishes he'd waited to get married and tells me that things would be OK if I'd be less "independent" minded. He also tells me he thinks we can work things out if we get counseling one more time (even though w/the past 3 counselors, nothing ever changed). As for counseling, a couple months after our son was born, he agreed to attend a group recovery course at our church for individuals struggling with sexual issues.  He attended that course for 5 months and seemed to be doing so much better.  During that time, we also started attending marriage counseling and we recently became involved in a group marriage course.  These things seemed to change the level of hope that we both had for our marriage and we both expressed to each other that we believed these were the tools we’ve needed all along – his criticism and anger seemed to be gone and for once, we BOTH were genuinely trying to make each other happy.  Now, here we are, 7 months into all our group and marriage counseling endeavors and we just took a trip out of town to relax together.  Within hours of us arriving at our destination, I felt like I was time-warped back into the “dark-days” because he spent the first several hours looking at other women, then when I was walking with him and got my heel caught in a sidewalk crack, he barked at me that I should try to be more “smooth” and assertive.  I took those things pretty well and didn’t say much about it because I thought he was just stressed out from the change in environment and I thought he’d relax soon enough so we could enjoy the rest of the trip.  Later that night, when things seemed to be going better, he yelled at me because I wasn’t getting out of the cab quick enough and even the cabbie looked at him like he couldn’t believe what he was hearing.  I let that just roll off my back and proceeded w/the night.  Then he melted down again about the littlest thing (didn’t involve me this time) and when I asked him to try to relax, he insulted me.  The next morning he pulled something sexual in nature that I find intolerable in a marriage relationship and I called him on it and he burst into a blame session, explaining that I am not meeting his needs, what he did was my fault, I wrecked our marriage from the start, etc.  I had a hard time with this, but eventually agreed that we could continue our trip and we went out for the day to start to try enjoying ourselves.  Instead of making an effort to try to revive the trip and focus on us as a couple, he spent the next 3 hours looking at every young woman in a skirt.  I’d had enough – I explained to him that such behavior is so hurtful to me due to our past problems and he blamed me for not wearing my skirts short enough and for wearing closed-toe heels instead of open-toe heels.  (On the streets of Manhattan, heels are tough, but I’d worn open-toe heels the entire day before -- that just wasn’t good enough for him.) My question is this: Is this my fault and if so, what should I do differently? I know I'm not perfect -- I gained, then lost about 20 pounds since we've been married (before the pregnancy) and I've made some mistakes in the way I spent money on our household furnishings, but that was 14-12 years ago and he's never forgiven me and brings it up all the time as the reason he presently does what he does to me. I should mention that I believe that God hates divorce and wants me to stay married because my husband is also a Christian and he hasn't cheated on me or physically hurt me.. Also, my love for my husband is strong in the sense that I very much remember what he was like during the six years we were dating and I want that back so much. Also, our son deserves a two-parent family, but he also deserves to live in a family where his mother is treated with respect.