Hello about two years ago I began dating a girl whom I came to love VERY much. She was very fit, funny, charming and put on the appearance of Martha Stewart as far as domestic skills go.
We instantly hit it off. She told me how nice it was to connect with someone who "gets her". I felt the same way.
The first few times visiting her home it was very orderly and well put together. Within the first few weeks she seemed a bit quirky, childish at times in her demeanor almost like dealing with a sad child. Other times she was angry as if she was having a bad day. Sometimes this would express itself as intense anger at work or other people though never directed at me.
Several ocassions I had to come to the rescue for her, such things as her having intense heartburn in the middle of the night required me to bring her medicine or her computer breaking or her getting lost. These things seemed trivial to me at the time. I enjoy helping people and to help someone I loved and cared for was even better. I also began to notice how chaotic her home was becoming, clothes tossed about, could never find keys, doors always unlocked, you were lucky not to trip on a laptop when locking in the front door!
After getting to know her I learned a few things. She had recently stopped taking anti-depressents. She had attempted suicide a year and a half earlier when a former lover left her and she was bulimic. Once again these things somewhat concerned me but she was seeing a therapist and I loved her either way.
A few months into our relationship a long term work contract she had was ending and we spent a great deal of time together, in fact every night after she lost her job. She would job hunt at my house and I would work from home.
About 6 months into the relationship her constant mood swings and unfounded anger caused me to take pause and I asked her about it. Our sex life had somewhat diminished and I was have mixed feelings about where this was headed. We took a break at this point. About a week into the break she contacted me frantically in the middle of the night stating that someone had stolen her car. I rushed to her house to wait for the police with her since she lives very close. This event caused us to begin spending a great deal of time together which brought us back into a relationship. Things were fine and felt good.
About a month into this time the sexual aversion started. We went 3.5 months without sexual contact. She spoke with her physician (she had quit seeing her psychologist when her insurance stopped coverage) who took her off of birth control. This did not help. He put her on welbutrin about a month before we broke up before good, after this we had sex a few times. 
After we broke up which was mutual we contacted each other on occasion. I told her that I missed her she would come back and say that we should be just friends. She was very insistant that we remain friends. I would cut contact then she would contact me after several days. This began to confuse me and my attempts to express my feelings of how bad I missed her became more frequent. Finally I decided to give up and I ended up in therapy myself ! Our last conversation before I gave up consisted of her telling me she was not attracted to me, our relationship was a lie, she is seeing someone now who makes her feel special etc. I had not experienced this much anger directed to me by her previously. I had it at this point. I stopped talking to her and felt great after about 4 weeks of mixed sadness and longing.
Then it happened, she contacts me again. A text in the middle of the night, I ask her why she said she was very lonely. Slowly but surely we worked our way up to going to lunch, her original request was drinks but I set the boundary at lunch. Of course we ate lunch and then ooops, she had no money, rescue me again. I felt strong this first time and didnt let my feelings get in the way and kept it very friendly.
Two days later it was lets get ice cream followed by going to her house and chatting for a long time about our lives over the last month or so. I kept it very friendly to this point as well. She was very interested in my love life.
The following week I was to help her with some household items. When i arrived at her house she was in a towel fresh out of the shower asking me to apply lotion on her. I did so and kept it friendly without making any sexual advances.
 At this point we were constantly texting each other throughout the day. When we were together she was constantly texting her "friends". 2 weeks later she spent the night at my house. I did make a small advance at her at this point and held her in her sleep. The next morning my feelings in a whirlwind I asked her where we were going with this. She said we were friends and this was a bad time to talk about this. I told her I couldn't handle being friends and that we shouldn't be doing this as friends. 4 days pass she is texting me again, I respond nicely and resumed no contact. Several days later she texts me frantically with something she had broken at her house, i told her that I could not come right away it would have to be tomorrow she said it would have to wait til later in the week then since she was "busy". The next morning her schedule had magically changes at I was at her house fixing something she had broken (surprise). I told her at this point how foolish I felt doing this stuff when she obviously was stringing me along, once again she was texting someone. I asked her if it was the person whom she was seeing, she said yes. I asked if he knew I was there and she said that she "didnt need to divulge that information to him". That was it, I reluctantly finished what I was doing and left.
Since then we have had no contact.
Does this sound like someone whom may have issues with BPD, she is from a broken home. Her father has been through a string of marriages while she lived between her parents homes.
I worry its just a matter of time before she is contacting me again. Its hard for me because I love her and would do anything for her, I feel like I am under some kind of mind control.
Sorry for the novel, at this point I dont want to continue to drive myself crazy and I dont want to be a complete a**h*** to someone whom may or may not genuinely need my assistance.
Thanks