Calling my father the Antichrist is such a gross understatement.
 He molested me,beat me, emotionally abused me, everything throughout my childhood.
 And where I’m at now is I’m 26, and have never been able to hold down a job or a man thanks to flashbacks I keep having of him. My current job is in huge jeopardy, and I am about to take him to court to file for civil damages. He's worth millions of dollars, while my financial situation is tragic, at one point I had to work in the adult industry just to keep a roof over my head, even further adding to the feelings that my only purpose in this world is to be a communal blow-up doll for men. I tried to press criminal charges, but the detective never got back to me. And it’s disturbing that I get flashbacks at work, which make me seem crazy and get fired, plus I want a daughter so badly which is unlikely, seeing as every time I get with a man, well, I know what it’s like to be used as a blow-up doll and have completely given up on ever knowing what it feels like to be made love to.
 I’m writing this because SOOOOOOOOOO many people have told me “Get over it”, “Don’t let it affect you”, etc., but no one has told me exactly HOW to do any of this.
 I have tried over 20 therapists, and all they have wanted to do is dwell on the past and not give me any direction on how to move forward. Besides, how am I supposed to absorb any advice they give me when I am so emotional from talking about it? So, for me, counselling is not an option, as it is a huge waste of my time and money, money being something I don’t have much of as I can’t seem to hold down a job. I am open to other options like NLP, hypnotherapy, etc., and am very curious about peoples’ experiences with these kinds of therapies.
 I have been on medication before, and I am not going there again, no ifs ands or buts, every time I felt so doped up to the point where I couldn't think clearly.
 Also, please don’t tell me anything along the lines of “Go to church”, I am spiritual but I find organized religion to be oppressive and self-pitying. I am so much more of the mindset that we are meant to work for our salvation, not pray and sit back waiting for it.
 Right now, it feels as if I’ll only truly be over this abuse if and when I achieve the 2 things I’ve been deprived of because of this, a stable job and a stable marriage.
 Thank you for your time.