I brokeup with my exboyfriend because I didnt want to be with him in an abusive controlling relationship anymore. Afterwards all of his family and friends teased him because I would totally ignore him when he would come around, I treated him like he was a total stranger. Later on he called and apologized for his conduct and he wanted to meet and talk. I rode with him to his apartment and we had dinner and we talked. He said that he was going to go get some ice from around the corner at the 7'11 but never returned. Around 3:30am in the morning he came back and I was crying asking him to take me home and I explained to him that this was another reason why things were never going to work out between us and that it was over. He beat and raped me! While he was ejaculating inside me he was pushing himself inside me more as if he was trying to impregnant me on purpose. I was afraid because he would always threaten to have someone kill me. I believe him because he knew a lot of dangerous people that didnt mind doing him a favor. There was no way out is how I felt at the time. His controlling and deranged father came and begged me not to press charges and he also threaten me if I was to pursue it further. 
 A few months I found out I was pregnant and I asked him for abortion money and he disappeared. No one in my family would help becauser the believed that abortion was a sin. My friends refused to help so i eventually asked his family and they refused as well. Nine months later my daughter was born. He appeared out of nowhere at the hospital smiling. 9months later he came over to visit and his mother asked could my daughter come to visit with her. i agreed out of fear. He kidnapped her and took her over to one of his girlfriends houses. He had done to me what he had been plotting to do with his other daughter one night with me and because I didnt agree with him he beat me to a bloody plup. After calling the poilice he eventually bought my daughter home. 
 ANother incident was when he came over to visit and it appeared that he had his fingure in my daughters mouth like he was teaching her how to perform oral sex. He may have been prepping her then now that im looking back. We went to court and now we share custody. when she was 114 I over heard her mention that she had been sleeping with her father. I went crazy and cursed him. Prior to that I remember having to beg him for extra money to get her the things she needed cause I wasdnt working at the time I was sick. He would refuse. After I cursed him out about him sleeping with her he started giving her money all the time. 
 A little while after that my daughter starte acting really sexual and was taking half naked photos with the monewy her father was giving her and sending it to a little boy in school. I immediately called a therapist. We had a big blow up and my daughtrer promised me she wouldnt do it again and then did it again the next day. She was lying to me about being sexually active all the wasy until i took her to the OBGYN. Later the following year my daughter was caught playing hooky from school and she was over yet another boy's house having sex with him. You would think that she would have learned her lesson because when I took her to the OBGYN she was told she had HPV.
 One day I remember seeing her father scratching and it appeared that he may have had the crabs it was disgusting. When my daughter came back from her visit she was acting really strange and I argued with her that nite for being a smart ***. a few days past and one nite she fell asleep on the sofa watching tv do  so I went and got in her bed. I woke up and a few days later I was itching. I immediately wonder if there was a connection. But she always lets her cousin wear her clothes and she difintley was having sex. 
 Now that shes with him while she s going to school I really wonder if something is going on because everytime I call her shes getting in the shower and he doesnt answer and she doesnt answer and they always say the same thing and have the samwe excuse. One day i called her and I told her i was coming to get my phone from her and that I would call when I was on my way but I just popped up out of the blue. It took him a moment to answer the door but I asked him where my daughter was and he said she was in the bathroom. Sh ewas in there awhile and he didnt tell her i was there. His apartment is really small so im sure she heard me thru the door. I knocked on it and asked her what she was doing and she said she was getting in the shower. I looked and her fathers clothes were on the toilet and her clothes was on the dirty clothes hamper. It looked like theuy were both getting ready to take a shower together. He was acting really strange and I asked what the hell he was looking so funny for and he just said nothing. 
 i asked her wass he touching her or wass he making her touch him and she said no but she clearly is a liar and so is he. I told my therapist and she does nt think its nothing I spoke to another counselor and he told me that the legal age in MD for a child to have sex is 16 so if they are having sex then it would be conseual unless my daughter admits that hes forcing her. WTF? I asked her the othe day and she said no. I even asked him and he never says anything he ignores me completly and acts dumb. What should I do at this point. I think shes scared of what might happen if she tells thr truth.  My daughter has two different personalities when she with me she fine and happy but when she with her father shes tempermental and angry as heck. She tends to las out at me a lot and when I offer my help she lashes out more and yells at me and tells me t=nothing is wrong. Is she protecting him becauwse he may have threatened to kill me like he used to do me.  Help!