This is hard to explain but bear with me. When I was a young child about the age of 5, my parents got into a fist fight, my dad came home drunk and wanted me to go with him but my mom wouldn't let me, I remember this perfectly, my mom picked me up and my mom and dad got into a fist fight, I remember getting hit in the face. About a month later I moved in with my great grandma and lived with her to about the age of 11. When school started I was 6, I would have nightmares every single night, this lasted till about the age of 11. Every night I would be scared to go to sleep because I knew I would have a nightmare. These nightmares consisted of people chasing me, me getting killed or finding dead bodies and even monsters comming out of the closet and grabbing me. This could of been caused by the arguing and parents splitting up when I was 5. When I turned 11, I moved in with my mom, when she moved into the city. Those nightmares I had still affect me today even though I don't have nightmares that often, I am scared to sleep by myself and I am almost 17 years old, this is a major problem for me. I can sleep fine though if I watch T.V. to get rid of all the ghost/monster thoughts trying to grab me when im trying to sleep or if im at a place that makes me happy. I hate the dark and its hard for me to close my eyes because I have this paranoid thought that something is beside me, but when I look nothing is there, no matter how many times I tell myself that nothings there, I still think there is. I have bad depression and very low self esteem, I tend to have thoughts of suicide from time to time, I think my life is a living horror and that the only way to get rid of the pain and problems of my life is to end it. I have tried talking to my family members but they all think im crazy, no one listens, no one understands. I am very poor at decision making skills, and in school im probably one the shyest people around, I have problems keeping people as friends because im scared that I will say something that will make them think im weird, but im so shy around people that I actually do start acting weird infront of people. I have trouble concentrating in school and I hate school more than anything and I feel as if no one understands me. Im only mostly shy infront of people that I want to impress, and I was popular in school I had quite a few friends but I gave all that up. people who I know like me as a friend I can be myself. I also find my self hearing voices in my head for example if im thinking of my great grandma who I love and took care of me as a child ill hear a voice in my head saying something like "I hope she dies" even though that is not true. Since my dad and mother didn't get along, could this mean I can't get along with myself? If anyone could help me thank you.