Hi Everyone,
 I'm wondering if anyone can shed some light on my situation.  I am 27, and in December of 2010, upon returning from vacation, I got sick with a cold.  It lasted about a week, but then I got severe constipation and went to the doctor.  I upped my fibre intake, and the constipation turned to diarrhea.  My stomach issues were persisting, and I started cutting out certain foods.  I had one instance of blood in my stool, which led me to believe it was colon cancer.  I started worrying.  I had a Fecal Occult Blood test done, which came back negative.  I did parasite testing, also negative.  I started to also get severe dizziness, which my doctor attributed to the fact that I had just returned from a cruise.  She suggested I wait it out, which I did.  It eventually went away.  
With the stomach problems came severe nausea in the mornings, and nausea after going to the washroom.  That eventually subsided once my new symptoms kicked in.  The glands in my neck got really swollen and painful, but I had no sore throat.  My fears changed from colon cancer to lymphoma.  I started getting neck pain, jaw pain, and headaches.  My eyes also got blurry, with some slight eye pain.  I changed my glasses four times in a period of a month.  I asked to see an ENT, who told me I had bad acid reflux (although i never had heartburn).  He said it was so bad, it was going into my nasal passages.  He put me on Tecta twice a day, and most of my facial symptoms went away.  
Then my muscles started to twitch.  It was CONSTANT twitching, all over my body.  Arms, Legs, Feet, Abdomen, Hands, Eye, etc.  I started thinking that I had ALS or MS.  My eyes had gotten better at this point, with the occasional sharp pain in the eye happening once in a while.  I should also mention that throughout all this, I was also getting random nerve pains all over my body, and a heat sensation on my scalp.  
The twitching was persistent, and I was scared to death of ALS.  Then I had a bout of weakness.  It happened in my jaw, my neck, my arms and my legs.  I went to the doctor crying my eyes out, and she did a series of muscle strength tests which she said were normal.  She sent me to a rhumatologist who essentially did the same thing, also normal.  
both my family doctor and the rhumatologist did blood work on me.  Everything was normal, including my glucose, thyroid, calcium, and all others that are typically tested.  The rhumatologist also tested me for some markers which are not typically tested, and she said everything was normal.  
The muscle twitching is still present, however it is not as bad as it used to be.  However I started getting this buzzing sensation in my feet.  It would first happen at the heel of my right foot, but then it started on the top of my left foot.  a week later, i felt it in my left knee.  it still happens once in a while, but not in the constant way that it was happening when it first started.  
Another odd sensation i am feeling is heat in my legs, and also the sensation that i have worked my legs really hard at the gym (but i havent).  i can still walk on them, and i can walk on my tippie toes and all that...but its really hard to sleep at night with the heat feeling, and the "pain".  Oh, and my vision has gotten a bit blurry again.
 Does this sound like MS?  I am scheduled for a brain MRI on the 19th, and EMG testing on the 30th.  
My doctor thinks it is stress, and has prescribed me with Cipralex.  I havent taken it yet, as i'm unsure if it will help.  
 I have done a Gastroscopy, which has come back normal.  I have also had a normal head CT.
 Sorry this message is so long.  Any input would be appreciated!