My ex gf has been investigated by CPS in the last 3 years I believe 13 times now for neglect, sexual abuse allegations against male roommates in her household, and child abuse. I am now fighting for primary care of my son since the last 3 investigations regarding abuse, and neglect involve my son. I have found that CPS has closed previous reports with no indicators because they could not keep up with my ex's many moves (6 times in 3 months). My son is now having serious nightmare since the court has ordered 50/50 time sharing and my son is being taken out of state for 2 weeks every month. Her new boyfriend has been arrested for simple battery with family violence, hindering a 911 call, and criminal trespass and lives in the home with my ex. My son tells me this man spanks him and that he is bad. I have now been in contact with many of my ex's previous neighbors that have agreed to testify to the neglect, and of the abuse they witnessed on the children by her previous boyfriends, but since the case has been closed with no indicators how do I insist that something be done. The neighbors state they spoke with CPS and told the investigator of the horrible living conditions (my sons playpen was in the master bedroom closet and this is where he slept, animal and human feces on the floor, more than 40 bags of garbage stored in the home that was removed when she was evicted again for non payment, lived without electricity and water for weeks), the neglect(my 2 year old son outside alone for more than 15 minutes at a time wearing just a diaper, children begging for food, children inappropriately dressed for cold weather), as well as the abuse(boyfriend choke slamming son on a bed after he he hit his sister, being smacked in the back of the head on many occasions, being left with whoever for 5 out of 7 days of time sharing with no contact with the kids) and CPS never documented any of these statements.  I also wanted to mention even after taking my son to the E R for a black eye, what appeared to be a belt strap mark on his inner upper arm like he was blocking his face, and serious bruising the nurse called CPS and I have found now that they never involved the police. I am fearful that with her past bad decisions and continuing to make the same decisions were her boyfriends are concerned that my son is going to end up being severely hurt or maybe even worse. How do I get the case reopened or get their attention before it's too late for my son or maybe one of his siblings?