Please help. I have been married for nearly 20 years and have three children aged 11, 13 and 16. My husband is my best friend and a lovely, kind, successful person. However, for years I have kept the secret that I don't find him physically attractive at all. I can see that he is handsome, and he is slim and fit, but I can't make myself feel desire for him. I knew this when I married him but I was very young and he was so in love with me, experienced, kind and made me feel so safe, so I decided it would be fine and I would 'learn' to love him in this way.
 It has never happened - we have sex intermittently but I often turn over and weep at the lack of intimacy - I don't want to touch or hold him, and I can't bear to look him in the eyes and hold him afterwards. I have a desire for sex, but not for him. I dream desperately of meeting someone, falling in love with them and having a full, happy relationship.
 Most of the time I keep this buried - busying myself with children, house moves, career, voluntary work, caring for my terminally ill mother (she died 20 months ago), seeing friends, etc. We have tried so hard - we had a holiday away together earlier this year without the children at a luxury beach resort - we had sex three times a day but it was so lacking in emotion, and I ended up weeping in the shower, and spending as much time as I could reading, listening to my ipod or going for a run to try and distract myself.
 After a very difficult family holiday last week, I summoned up the courage to tell him how I feel. I was so horrified at hurting him, but he begged me to tell him everything, so I did. He was gutted, devastated, but deep down he knew. I told him that I think he deserves someone who truly loves him, and he was so touched that I thought of him. We had a 4 hour conversation - no shouting - and he is so supportive. He understands that we should separate and we are going to live with this thought for a little while now before we tell the children and he moves out.
 I hate myself so much - I haven't slept for days - what am I doing? Have I lost the plot? I will never find someone so kind and loving ever again, and I am 43 so who is going to want me anyway? Will I regret this? I have no-one to talk to and am just so confused and frightened of the future. If I run back to him, he will be so grateful, but that would be so unfair on him.