Hey, i'm a guy and 20 years old
 I get trouble with anxiety, but i've started feeling depressed lately. i graduated from uni with a foundation degree. on others' advice, i went back for 1 more year to top it up to a full degree. however, i left because i didn't think it was going anywhere. 
 the job i've got is only part-time 8 hours a week. i asked for extra hours before Christmas but they took on christmas temps and said afterwards, i'd be able to have extra. after christmas, they offered interviews to those Christmas temps - as well as me for extra hours - yet even though some of them are really bad at their job (they just chat and dont get on with it), they allowed them to stay on permanently with full-time hours. i was "unsuccessful" based on my interview and not based on how i work so i'm stuck with 8 hours a week. just to say, i'm not being big headed. i always try my best in anything and I get told i work well. even other workmates say i'm good and they were shocked why i didn't get extra hours even though i've been there 2 years compared to the 2 weeks the Christmas temps had been there. 
 i've been applying elsewhere but it's all online now... no one ever emails back, i've gone to 2 interviews in a week and i've been unsuccessful. it's for retail jobs - just to give me extra hours until i find the job i'd love to have. i studied photography/media at Uni and in the future, i would love a job in television. I know it's hard to get into, but i've set my mind to it and when i set my mind to things, i need to get there. 
 I seen the top highest manager about extra hours and he said he'd let me know, but because people are chatting about me (i get anxiety that i'm not liked by others...stupid  i know but i've had it years) and i just feel really depressed because it's like no one wants me. i'm good with customers, regular customers always have a bit of a laugh with me, i will admit i can be shy, but i don't think i'm that bad a worker. 
 people say i need to come out of my shell more. it's easy to say that but it's hard to suddenly change. i've always been confident around friends and i get told i'm funny, but lately i've just been feeling like doing nothing. like when i wake up in the morning, i used to jump out of bed. now i just lie there for like an hour or two. lately i've been crying myself to sleep too. my Grandad, Great Nan & Great Auntie all passed away in 2010-2011 and I really miss them all too. it's like I can't get it in my head that they're no longer here. 
 I feel so lonely too. i wish i had the confidence in love. I wish i had a girlfriend. everyone else seems to be with someone. like i go out, look around, and it's always couples walking along hand in hand, or kissing. i want to be like that and happy. 
 I want these low feelings to go. at the moment i just think like "what's the point". it feels like i want to talk with someone about it but my Doctor is useless, my family never seems to want to take me seriously either. I just like want a big hug and someone to tell me it's all going to be okay. x