I have been in a relationship for 22 years (married 18). I have 2 teenagers. When the kids were young, I was a stay at home mom and as a result my self esteem and self worth went down the drain. My husband made me feel like I was  a second class citizen because I wasnt bringing any $$$ in. He also has a short fuse and gets cranky and angry quickly so i found myuself constatnly on egg shells trying to prevent that from happening. He makes promises to our kids and then does not follow through, hes passive aggressive with backhanded compliments or just outright mean to me and the kids. As my kids started getting older, I started working part time - but only when they were in school so that I could still care for them and not have to pay for babysitters. Over the years I took on more hours and now work full time and still manage the day to day functions of our household. I make maybe a third of what my husband makes and he constantly makes me feel again like I am a scond class citizen - that my work and the $$ I bring in are nowhere near as importatnt as his job and income.
 About 2 months ago he came very very close to hitting me (which he has never done before) in front of our kids and then told the kids that it was their fault and that if he did hit me he would have to leave and it would be their fault that we weren't together anymore (he knows that if he ever hit me or had an affair - we would be done). I have tried multiple times to talk to him about the severity of him almost hitting me and the severity about his words afterwards but he scoffs and avoids the subject - i cant get past it. He also shows me no affection (very little sex since September). Over the past year I have lost about 50 lbs and have gotten in shape and look pretty good for a mother of 2 in her forties - and again if he compliments me it is along the lines of "you look good... wow look at how saggy your *** is".
 About a month ago - he used the threatening fear tactics on my 16 year old son and made him cry for fear that his dad was going to hit him. Again .. not ok!!!
 We never know what mood hes going to be in when he walks in the door either and when he rants and rages - we all scramble trying to difuse the situation.
 Over the years i have lost most of my friends becasue he would make me feel guilty going out with them and have been pretty isolated and alienated from my family. im tired and dont want to live like this anymore but fear that i wont really have any support if i  leave him. He will be very very mean to me and use our kids as pawns to manipulate them against me.
 Ive made my bed... do I sleep in it? or do I leave?