I am 19 turning 20 soon (I'm disclosing my age because I know that many BPD-like symptoms are associated with adolosence and that adoloscents tend to "grow out" of these..I have, and continue to, struggle with these symptoms). I have struggled with certain emotions, thoughts and feelings for a long time. I always assumed I struggled with depression. When I was younger, I was fearful of telling my mom my feelings because I felt that she would laugh at the thought of me thinking I had depression. I was fearful of telling anyone else because I thought they would either label me as crazy (for having suicidal thoughts) or would not understand.
I go through periods when I am very happy with my life, when things seem to be going well. Then, one small thing or a few small things that are negative will happen and I am plunged into feelings of intense sadness, emptiness and a feeling of being alone as well as feelings of feeling lost and confused as to who I am or what I'm doing with my life. 
Ever since I was a young child I can remember having feelings of loneliness although I have never been truly alone. I always had a family that was loving and I always had friends that I could rely on. However, even as a young child I recall feeling bouts of loneliness mixed with extreme sadness and confusing and conflicting thoughts..I felt very empty and alone but I didn't know why, I wanted something but I wasn't sure what exactly I wanted. 
As I got older, I began to experience "attacks" of some sort..I get feelings of extreme sadness and depression where I will cry uncontrollably and feel like my life and existence is going out of control. I scratch at myself and my thoughts seem to come in fragments and I feel unreal. I feel as if I don't exist or that nothing makes sense and the world has become skewed..like I'm in a dream or in some kind of weird fog-like state. Sometimes I self-mutilate by cutting or slapping myself. I often feel suicidal during these "attacks", and I think about killing myself and it feels extremely rational when I'm in that state. I feel crazy and like everything is coming apart and like my existence is falling apart and like nothing makes sense. I feel extremely empty during these times.
These "attacks" are not necessarily triggered by something big..sometimes the thought of many of my friends being out and having fun will lead to me to have these bouts. 
I used to go on frequent alcoholic binges although I stopped recently (I haven't had a drink in 5 months) because it was getting out of control. Although I think about having drinks sometimes, I have been able to restrain myself. One impulsive behaviour that I haven't been able to eliminate is eating binges and dieting. I frequently diet, lose weight  and then go on extreme eating binges. I have also recently developed a habit of impulsive spending.
Other issues and thoughts that I have dealt with that lead me to believe that I might have BPD are my relationships with others. For many years I have felt like I needed to find a true love in my life to unload my emotions on, to rely on and to love me and care for me. I have felt like if I had just one person in my life who loved me intensely, with all their heart, that I would then be relieved of my problems and my depressive thoughts. As well, although I have several close friendships with others, I always have the fear that I will be one day left alone. Sometimes I push them away by rejecting invitations or by being distant but then eventually feel starved and like I need them so much. 
As well, when I am attracted to someone I tend to think about them non-stop, obsessively almost. I find it is hard to get over my attractions to men because I think about them all the time (many times not on purpose, thoughts about them will just pop into my head) and I have this hope that maybe they'll like me if I change for them. I know in my mind it's not rational, but I still tend towards this type of thinking.
 Anyways, I'm not trying to get a diagnosis here. I just wanted to know if those of you who were diagnosed with BPD can say that my thoughts and feelings are similar to what you experience or whether you think that I might have BPD. I know that I need to seek help and I want to seek help although I still need to overcome my fear of the stigma associated of having this type of disorder.