I'm 17 years old and i think i may have depression. I have felt like i may have for the past few months and even my family have noticed. My sleeping patterns have changed a lot recently, i always wake up in the night something i never used to do and i have the same reoccurring dream where both my parents and siblings die. I find the dream very upsetting and regularly wake up crying. I find i wake up every morning tired and struggle to get the motivation to get up for the day-i promise i'm not just being lazy. I horse ride very competitively and until recently dreamt of doing it professionally, i use to love competing and look forward to each event. Now i just don't enjoy it at all, i never look forward to it and subsequently i don't get very good results-upsetting me even more. I don't want to simply give it up as until the past few months i loved it and it was my favourite thing. I feel awful because my parents put so much time and effort into it and i feel like i am just wasting it. My performance at school is also slipping, which considering how close we are to exams is an issue. Getting low grades and constantly feeling like  failure is what i think may be the cause of my feelings. Its a vicious circle-the worse grades i get the more guilty and worthless i feel the less i can concentrate and work in order to improve my grades. I have a good group of friends however i never talk about feelings with them and i always act like the easy going not caring kind of person when in fact i couldn't be more opposite. I find it so hard to express my actual feelings to people, however i am also completely confused about why or how i truly feel. I don't understand why i should feel like this, i have good family, friends, lifestyle, if i just actually stopped feeling sorry for myself and did some work i could get better grades. Its so easy to have a go at yourself telling yourself to 'snap out of it', but how do you snap out of it? I feel completely trapped within my head, i don't want to feel like this yet i can't seem to snap out of it. I go to school each day and act happy and care free, i exercise regularly and i have good friends, other people have way worse things happening to them so i don't understand why i feel like this, it seems stupid.