Hi there, 
I hope that you can help. I posted this on BPD forum because it is the closest thing I have looked at. In some sense I have a fear of going to the doctor so I do look online to see if it's anything to worry about in advance, so that I don't need to go, hopefully. I'd say deep down I know something was wrong too and this is an extreme case.
I am almost 20 years of age, and i'd say I have had a steady upbringing, only until being in a 3 year abusive, on and off relationship has it changed. At the time I didn't realise it was abuse or anything similar but now looking back on it and being more open to my close friends has my opinion changed. I only mention this because partially I think it has changed me, as a person. I have always had a steady education, not the brightest of the bunch but I coped and perserved and I am now studying in a good university. Throughout school I was different in that I liked playing football and I loved sport, a lot of people didn't understand that and made fun of that being from the UK and more specifically the area where I have been brought up, which is something I always hated and similar issues carried out throughout school. 
I have always had self image issues and since I was around 12 I have, and I have never admited this before, self abused my own body. Not sure why but I have, it's not regular, but it has become more frequent. I have 2 best friends who I have known and loved for years and then other close friends who I cannot seem to keep in the same minds about, who I push away then attempt to pull back. I have a new boyfriend, who I was scared to get close to. He is such a lovely gentleman and knows how to treat me, he understands that something is wrong but wouldn't push me to do something about it. Our relationship however, from my point is bad. I love him dearly and want to stay with him, we have talked about being together forever and all that, which is something I would never do unless I truly meant it. However, I have turns which make me break it off, argue for no reason and act out irrationally. I have more recently become very agressive, both in the relationship and out of it. I took my worst turn the other day and punched a taxi driver. Something, I am completly ashamed of and I have gotton myself in to more and more fights these past 7 months. I know something is wrong with how I am dealing with my relationship and how I have pushed many friends away. I do not make the effort with my uni friends, I live at home, which has been hard, so I never bother. I find myself being happy then sad, then happy then sad but very suddenly. I never know how to act around people, which I have always found hard and this does cause me to "act out" in a way. I have recently made 3 new friends and have become part of their group. Each have their own issues but I feel that my behaviour is causing myself to loose them and I really don't want that to be the case as goes with my new boyfriend. I love these people and hate knowing that a small push could send them walking or disliking me for life. 
My parents and I have always had a good relationship, much better more recently with my mother. My father is a big drinker, but he is not the type to go out, he drinks everynight when he isn't working the following day and this is something that my parents have always argued about. I have never felt close with my father, and almost feel neglected because he makes a lot of effort with my brother and not me. My mother, I love dearly and is the reason i'd rather seek advice online and not break down to her about my problems. I know my nan suffers a mental illness and for my mother to grow up around that must have been hard. 
I am not sure what is wrong but I do feel like I need help, I was wondering if anyone on here would like to comment about similar issues or if you think I am being stupid then by all means please let me know. I'd like to sort out my relationships and aggressive tendencies because it is hurting my life in so many ways. 
Anyone have any ideas?
Thanks,