My baby girl was born Jan 14, so she's almost 1 month old. I feel really down most of the time, and I get very agitated easily, like even the smallest things will set me off. 
 I'm 21, and live at home with my parents. They've been so helpful with everything, but its still hard, and I don't feel like I have a right to say that because I do have alot of help. When I know I'm going to be home alone with the baby I get so anxious about it. I feel like I'm not doing anything right, and that I'm letting everyone down. Then I have moments where I know I'm doing everything I can; I'm still in school, and worked up until the day before I delivered. 
 I had to have emergency surgery to remove my gallbladder when baby girl was just about 3 weeks old, and since then I've been out of it. I can't do anything, and I feel like I should be doing so much more. I was breastfeeding exclusively, and had to stop because of the surgery. I'm really down about that, because I really wanted to continue doing it,even if it kind of was a pain in my butt. 
 Then there's the story with my babys daddy. There's so much I really won't get into it, but its a huge stress for me. He wants all the glam of having a baby without the nitty gritty. So the bills all go to me, and he gripes about how much time I let him see her. Its more than any court would give him to say the least. I have a lawyer ready to go, but I don't know if I'm ready to go down that road yet. Because once I do, the fights will really start. 
 I'm so stressed out, exhausted from caring for a newborn, and still trying to heal from giving birth, then having major surgery. Also I've lost so much weight since giving birth that even my pre pregnancy clothes fall off of me. I hate the way I look now, and everything thats going on is starting to make me hate myself. I feel like I should do more, but I just can't. Physically or mentally, I just can't. I love my daughter so much, but when she's crying in the middle of the night I sometimes wish I would've been more careful. Then I hate myself even more for thinking that. 
 I just don't know how to not feel this way. Does this sound like ppd? :(