I am from Asia. I have met my huasband when i was 21. we had a nice time during first year and after i have started working he started acting differently. He always accused me saying i am going with other men at my work. however, i really wanted him and we have got married in 2005 I have 6 year old son and 8 moths old daughter. I have gone through a very difficult time during my delivery of daughter and after that i have lost my job. although I have problems with my  husband i have just ignore him because i cannot do anything because of our children. he also a good person he cook for me he looked after children and so on but whenever the time comes he using his words very badly to me and he always blaming my poor mother my sister and my brother. they have not done anything for him. he also never close to his own family and he does not like when i am keeping  in touch with his family because of that i have deleted all the contact information of his family members. 
 Recently, my mother came to UK to see my little daughter. before she go he started a fight. During christmas he started a fight and i came out from the party with my children and he started abusing me very badly and my mother heard it. i am in difficult situation now as i do not have a job and also i have two children. whenever he go out on his own he drinks with his friends and coming home very happily but if he go out with the family  I mean with me he always coming out with some argument with me.    I am a person not going anywhere without my family. my parties are only with our friends and families it also once a year or twice. I do not know what to do.
 These days 90% of my day is spending with argument. i really feel like leave him and go but my children make me stop doing it. I am also now using all the bad words and accusing him as much as i can to get a small break. what i can do but by doing that i feel disgusting about my self.  i am cursing him but nothing working out. i am really stuck and i am dressed now. i feel like kill him.
 this man is sick some time he is so good i do not know what to do. he do everything for children but he never shows his love to me. he is acting like as if he does not have feelings. i really do not want to sleep with him but we only have one room to sleep other room my children are sleeping. we also arguing in the night. 
 he is also lying to me. now have a daughter and my son make me stuck here. i really need to get help. also he is very nosy he is checking my fb my emails and he is controlling my money and everything. also he is suspecting me. I really need to help my mother nor one can stop i am doing it. this man knows about it from long time but he does not like it.  
 he is a soft spoken person but softly he is telling everything that makes me angry after that he is smiling and it makes me more angry. i do not know how he is doing it. if i go how i am going to look after my children along while working. i am jobless he always talking about it and making me upset and he is telling me i am so bad and i do not now how to speak and treat people. i am doing it only for him I never do it for my family or other people. in order to get some release i am doing that. if my colleagues or friends got know that they will not realized it because i never show any problem to anyone. i am so happy at work and having fun at work. as soon as i come home this man is on my neck.