Hey ive been married for 4years n ive gotta myself in to a situation.
Started off early, met ths guy n all, i was like 17 he was 18, he was a great guy, we saw each other for a few weeks as he family was on holiday in nz. He was leaving in a week, we were getting closer n started to fall for each other to fast to quickly as we were young and in love. I fell sick in the lastweek, thinking this isnt normal until i strated to miss my monthly. Shock as i fort i went doctors to makesure, toke a test and posstive outcome, i cried so bad i ddnt no what to do? I told him and he was shocked cause he was leaving the next day bk to raro. He left and we kept it on the low until we firgured what to do?? So we both told our parents n they just all agreed to get us married.  We dd n we were happy as,, but it was rough, young love, i hd my son at the age of 18. He was the most beatiful little person ive ever seen, he was mine. My partner is a minstors son. I was just a girl who didnt want change, but dd to early. I still wanted to drink Nd go out with my girls but he stopped me n used my son as an excuse for me to stop everything. We moved to raro and i left my family n friends behind, to start a new exciting life. Little did i know problem after problem, i felt like my husband would leave me n my son hanging and go talk to his friends n didnt introduces us to anyone, so we just left and wenit home without him. Got wrost when he would spend more time on his music then us nor to look after our son while i wanted to  do my sruff. Everything was going downhill. Until one night massive out break i was so angry n mother inlaw called me and i brusted out "WHAT" in an unmannered way which was wrong of me.. Mother inlaw, father inlaw n husband enters the room, while i had my son with me at the time feeding him. They rushed in like they werre ready to smash me or something. Husband say: "dont you f***ing talk to my mum like il smash u up.
Father inlaw: dont you talk to my wife lke that you have no right, you lazy and you arnt wrothy of my son he can do better, he could of found someone better but his with you!!! Mother inlaw just gives me the badest evils n says your not wroth it!!! True colours come out when your angry...next day felt a really bad vib and i ddnt say or come out of the room, slept on the matress on the floor, ddnt wana be near my partner. Father minstor says sorry and didnt mean what he said so he says. 
Me: i forgive you but i know what you said u meant it, and i will never forget it.
Went inside said sorry to my mother inlaw, walked outside crying my eyes out. No support from family, i had no one not even my own husband standd up for me, even dou i was wrong but i had no where to run nor go to. I struggled to move on, it wasnt the same anymore, i felt alone n depressed. Got me a job to save up to visit my family, finually arrived april 2011, me n my son oneway tickets back to nz, i was excited to go bak to see everyone, longest 3years been away from them ay.
Ive been here n hardly talk to him, he tryed to talk but i juzt dont, ive been straight with him, i dont feel the same about him, the spark we had is gone and we left it like that. He will always be my sons father but thats it. Its been 1year n afew months since we slipt up, do you think we should move on??? He still wants to works things out for my son sake of being confussed on why one of us isnt around him anymore. But i really have no feeling at all for him and just not the person i fell in love with, with the person who loved me for me, but changed me completely and try to make me into someone im not. Help me out???