My gf and I have been together 8 years and have a 6 yr old and a 1 yr old. In the beginning it was great , a typical falling in love scenario. After a few years things changed it wasn't the same for me anymore. I was wanting to explore with other women but never did cheat. Then we were having a child so I manned up and changed my attitude, there were bumps on the road along the way. My mind wandered and we almost broke up a few times ( b/c of me) but always came back because of our family. I was the provider and she made just enough to cover bills, which is more then a lot of stay at home moms can do. We had another child, again not planned but we were both happy. We were also happy that the older one will have a sibling. After the birth I was supportive and still am, I want what's best for the kids which is for us to stay as a family. I also want what's best for my gf. I love her and I always will but I am not in love with her. I fantasize about other women, I tried to discuss what really turns me on intimately but she just isn't the sexual type that I like. I haven't asked her to marry me because of this shallow expectation I have. I was also afraid to leave because she didn't make much money. But now she makes WAY more then I do. We were on our way to having the comfortable lifestyle. I don't care about that stuff anymore. I have just expressed myself to her on how I truly feel after hiding it for years and years. It broke her heart and I feel like a piece of ****. She won't have any money problems because I'm there to help as well. (I know money doesn't solve the feelings of rejection) I don't want to live a lie. I don't want her to be treated poorly because of my bad attitude. Happy one day miserable the next. She deserves better, but yet I'm the one who loses all of our friends. Even my family is going to reject me because I am the ******* who left. I don't know if I'm being selfish or not. I feel blind but my heart yearns for something else. If I met someone else it might go south again and then i will regret what I have done. Tired of pretending but so confused and lost. We have not gone to a couples councilor, I'm sure that will be the response from most of you. I just want the opinions of couples with experience.