. I've had symptoms of depression and anxiety for about the last 4 years I've tried Paxil Zoloft and I'm currently on gabapentin 900 milligrams per day and lamotrigine working my way up to 50 milligrams per day.
 The reason for my depression and anxiety is a disease called Meniere's syndrome, and it causes severe tinnitus. It's the tinnitus that has been the arrow in my knee and it doesn't seem to let up. I just got a job it's only on the weekends but I worry that without sufficient treatment of my condition I will be unable to work, be a good family man, ect...
 What I'm wondering is if my long-term and pretty heavy use of marijuana is having its own effect on my depression and if it is, how I'm supposed to quit well in the midst of all these medications each causing their own side effects plus the fact that I can't really miss work.
  My memory is crap. I'm either getting too much sleep or not enough I feel a strong and general sense of malaise.
 I've made appointments with all the relevant health professionals, but like appointments before, I fear that they are unable to see all the extenuating circumstances surrounding my depression, and therefore are unable to treat it as effectively.
 My appetite is crap I'm losing weight I have no desire to eat unless I've smoked marijuana and this bothers me. So how do I figure out how to treat my depression and anxiety while at the same time attempting to leave my marijuana habit it in the past?
 Also I've been bombarded by ear worms sounds and songs that sometimes I haven't heard in years, but will play constantly over and over in my head. I'm unsure if this is a symptom of depression or if it's a symptom of heavy marijuana usage. 
 I'd be interested to know if anybody else has this going on alongside their other symptoms.
 I hope I've given enough information here for somebody to get a rough idea of what may or may not be going, on and suggestions for medications and medication combinations that may be able to treat the symptoms that I have listed, as well as any other factors related.
 Thank you and please help