Ok, I'm not sure where exactly to begin:
Approximately a year ago, I started to become someone I'm not. I took on some pretty bad anxiety that grew into severe paranoia. So bad that I stopped going out altogether. Literally. Little Miss Social Butterfly who loves people, and socializing, shut herself out from the world. I stopped working, answering my phone, making phone calls, going to my doc appts, and just recently, I got rid of all my Facebook, Myspace and Twitter accounts (and if I told you why, you would think I'm insane). When I AM made to leave the house, I can't stop obsessing over everyone around me. I feel like they are all staring at me, talking about me, following me. I know this sounds absolutely ridiculous, but I start rambling on about things I put together. Things I think they're up to. I can't stop it. And today, while grocery shopping, I had to use the restroom, but I couldn't bring myself to "go". I am convinced lately that cameras are in public bathrooms. 
 So, now that you know I'm driven mad by paranoia and anxiety, let's move on to some of my other "issues." I honestly believe that a spirit is trying to communicate with me through white noise over the past few months. Every time I turn on my hair dryer, shower, stereo.... I hear it talking. I can't make out what it is saying or why it is choosing me, but it is, without a doubt, there. I know this is not in my head, because I have not always had this ability. And, not only do I hear this spirit, but I see it. I've been seeing it for the same length of time as I've been hearing it talk to me. 
 Another special little gift (or curse) I've been given is the ability to read minds. Again, not something I could always do. I do it to people all the time. 
 Ok, what else? I've been grinding my teeth a lot, chewing on my tongue without noticing (ew, I know) and talking to myself. I've been suffering Insomnia for about 6 months now and The Trazadone and Ambien are both both a /FAIL! Nothing works. 
 My moods have become quite unpredictable these days. I was never known as the "depressed" type and do NOT live a depressing life in the least. It's as if an evil set in a year ago and and and is growing inside of me - bigger, and bigger and wants to take over my happy life. Why do I suddenly hear voices inside of my head telling me all kinds of awful things?? 
 I only have a very few close friends and one of them told me that "not myself" lately..... That I really ought to see a psychiatrist. Here's the thing. She has an Aunt who is Schizophrenic (and I've met her Aunt). I  know what she is getting at. I'm not stupid. She just couldn't come out and say it. Which, I take offense to. But, here's the thing, I'm nothing like her Aunt. Her Aunt thinks she's Jesus, for Heaven's Sakes! (no pun intended). She paces back and forth rambling things that make no sense.... 
 Am I denying that I have some issues going on? No, absolutely not. I guess I just want some more feedback. I'm scared to see a psychiatrist. I don't go out much. And, I don't trust people, to be quite honest.