I've done some research online, but that means nothing - many times people, especially me, can form their symptoms into something they aren't, just to say they have an illness or emotional injury, so I'm asking you guys. Heh..
 I am 16. I'm in my sophomore year of high school. I'm a girl, and yes, my body image worries me, but I haven't fallen to peer pressure in years - it's not something I deal with on a day-to-day basis, mainly because I have .5 friends. .5 because my best friend, Mark, is only my friend half the time. The other times I'm alone or being pestered by freshmen or teachers while I'm trying to work or read. I only have my best friend because of a separation that recently happened between my group of friends. Mark is in the middle, thus the .5. 
I am used being alone, and thankfully I've got my boyfriend, who lives next door and picks me up and drops me off at school - he's always with me when I'm not at school.
I have always had body aches, but recently it's gotten far worse. Sometimes if I turn the wrong way, a pain shoots through the left or right side of my chest. Most often my left, which is worrisome for obvious reasons. 
I have started to be unable to sleep. I'll stay up til 12, with my eyes closed, trying and unable to sleep. 
This afternoon, during a nap I take almost regularly because of my inability to sleep during the night, I awoke and couldn't move. I could hear myself snoring. My boyfriend and mom told me I had sleep paralysis and asked me if I was alright - apparently I was supposed to freak out, but all I did was wave it off, figuratively, and try to go back to sleep.
In addition to my new body pain and insomnia, I have random and terrible headaches. For no reason, behind my eyes starts to hurt, and if I think about it o much my entire head aches with a very sharp pain, so bad my eyes water. They water anyway if I don't hide from the light, since that burns them. I usually go in my closet, in the cool and dark, until I'm okay. Unfortunately, the pain causes me to turn slightly suicidal, and I desire a razor with which to cut myself. [I used to do it a few years ago, but thankfully I stopped.]
 When I get these headaches, I begin to seize. [If you read my about-me, it explains that I have psuedoseizures.] To avoid seizing, I rock back and forth to calm myself, but my boyfriend worries and doesn't like it, so I can't do it and therefore can't calm myself. The seizures are not new.
 Does anyone have any answers or recommendations about what to do? Please help me, before I do anything I'll regret.