I want to get all of this off my chest. Writing this massive essay alone made me feel better. 
 I appreciate any feedback. 
 I feel as if I'm in a down-ward spiral that I can't control, and if not that, then I'm completely and utterly stagnant and rotting. The worst part is, is that I feel as if this is the end-result of problems that have been present my whole life. 
 I am a College student currently struggling with his academics, motivation, concentration, and what I now suspect is an anxiety-forced apathy and depression towards the world that has been present since grade-school. Probably the worst thing about this all is that I don't know if I'm just being dramatic and looking for excuses for laziness, or if I have a serious problem; this fear eats at me incessantly (which, may be a sign of another problem...).  
 Anyway, background information; skip to the next line if you don't want to hear my life story------------------------------------
 In first grade whenever faced with a difficult project that I just could-not get, I stopped. I threw my arms in the air and said no. Of course, this didn't suffice and eventually I was forced to work on the material through parental and teacher pressure, and support (I mentioned pressure first on purpose). This was not unique to me of course, but the problems continued. 
 In second grade I had a similar attitude, but I did do my work. More-so than anything else pushing me was the pressure to perform generated by my parents, but once again this was not unique to me. 
 But I did have unique quirks. For example, I literally fell asleep, compulsively, during in-class reading so frequently that my teacher just gave up and let me sleep.  
 In elementary school I rarely did put extreme effort into my work. On difficult assignments I would procrastinate and ignore them until the last minute. Okay, perhaps I'm not being completely fair, for I was not a TERRIBLE student in elementary school. I did do my work, and I did well, but I looked for every way out of it, and on difficult subjects I tended to stress-out and ignore whatever I could. Usually it was the combined effort of teachers and my parents giving me the push to finish my assignments. 
 This trend of stress followed by me ignoring my problems has been a very reoccurring pattern in my life. 
 In middle school I did a 180˚. I became a very good student, and a very nervous one at that. I carried around with me literally every book I needed for every class. The extreme transition from a cozy protected elementary school to an open and "responsibility-focused" middle school was rough, for I became paranoid, and fearful of failure. In math and other classes (like foreign language) when faced with difficult questions and problems I would rip myself to pieces, I would bite my shirt, bite my nails (which has been a behavior that I still perform today to an extreme degree), bite my hands, cry, and express anger. In relaxing classes like art I would push over chairs just because the paint wouldn't obey my demands. I would frequently be sent to the guidance office, in a tear-covered mess. 
 After 6th grade I calmed down a bit. I still had extreme stress, but I was much more controlled in *most* situations. Despite my grades (which were good), I wasn't put into the school's advanced program due to the administration thinking that based on my previous outbursts it would be best for me to remain in the regular curriculum. I didn't care about this at the time, but it did begin to eat at me later, especially since the vast majority of my friends were in the program, making me feel alone and like a fool. 
 Middle school was over, and then came high school. Most of my close-knit group of friends went together to a separate private school, another close-friend and I went to another private school. In my freshman year I soon realized that I was completely alone. I had gone to schools with the same people for my entire life, and now I was in a foreign school with different people, and with no friends (my single close-knit friend was seperated for most of the time) and completely out of my comfort zone. All of this eventually accumulated into me being too afraid to even go to lunch, for I feared having to speak to foreign people and ask someone to sit down at "their" table. I ended up hiding in the bathroom every day. For 3 years. 
 Of course, that's pretty traumatizing, but eh... No one but me (and now you) knows that, so you should feel honored (and if you're still reading, you're quite the champion!).
 In highschool I became extremely paranoid, over-compulsive, and nervous. I finally became proud of my own academics. I got great grades, and generally I did pretty well. 
 ...But behind that, I had huge problems that were eating away at me. I couldn't take criticism well, I began to become paranoid of my friends (who formed their own clique' within our friend group, making me feel even more alone), and whenever faced with failure I took it violently. I began unleashing anger through self-harm and generally I felt horrible for performing less than I had wished. But hey, at least I had good grades right? 
 I may be making it out to sound worse than it was... But you know, when you're writing this stuff down, it starts to get at you... 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Anyway. I graduated with an A average, and went to college. I loved college, for now I could finally be introverted if I wanted to without making me feel like **** (or so I reasoned). 
 ...But then the work started getting harder. I soon started taking harder and harder classes that give me extreme difficulty. Old problems have started to re-appear, for I find myself drowsy and sleepy in class even when I get a good night's of sleep. Anxiety and fear are at an all time high now that I have to decide what I'm going to do with my life.
 ...especially now that dearly loved relatives are passing away. 
 This current semester is horrible. It doesn't help that the courses are upper-level courses, but I genuinely
 can't function. 
 I've felt like a complete zombie lately. Time flies by, INCREDIBLY fast, and I feel like I'm never 'with it.' 
 I don't pay attention in class, and instead my mind incessantly ponders random topics. I find that I'm now arguing with myself, telling myself to stop thinking, to shut up, to pay attention... I'm trying to give myself structure but it's not working because ultimately I undermine it completely. 
 I can't take tests anymore without exploding. All the information flies away, like dust in the wind and I'm left dumb-founded. It has gotten so bad that I at times I think I'm mentally retarded. Fortunately at least I can still write, so there's that. 
 My grades have fallen hard, but I don't seem to care. I initially thought it was due to depression, and since then have seen a psychiatrist who agreed (I didn't go into this much detail). I am now taking minor anti-depressants and adhd drugs, but I don't think they're helping as much as I had hoped. 
 I now suspect I may be suffering from extreme anxiety that may be the root behind everything. This anxiety and stress that has been a life-long issue that has undermined me at every turn... 
 But I don't know what to think, or do. I'll go see my psychiatrist soon, but I needed to get this off my chest now before I go more insane with finals right around the corner. 
 Anyway, there's my story. I don't know what is wrong. I don't even know if there is anything wrong and if it's all inside my head. I legitimately feel crazy, I'll go from periods of sadness, to anger, and then to self-anger, and then to apathy. 
 I would love to hear your thoughts. 
 Thanks for reading, and even if you didn't this helped tremendously.