Hi,
 I am concerned about a 15 year old boy that I think may be emotionally abused. I an 18 year old male as well and have become accquainted with this young man through the school. I don't know much about his home life, but I do know that it is not the best. From what I can gather from other people who have a bit more insight, his mother is not physically abusive and is mentally stable, but does curse at him, call him names, discourages him, etc. He has a step-father and between the two, they have a very generous amount of income, just by the nature of their jobs, but they hoard it all up and never give him any money, even for school trips. He is always needing money on school functions like this. I know he hates to ask, but I suppose he has gotten used to it from having to bum all his life. 
 Just looking at this young man and being around him, you would never think this was happening. He is so bright, cheerful, funny, friendly, and intelligent. He knows almost everyone in his high school class and I have never heard him say  one negative word about anyone. 
 He has only opened up to me on one occasion about emotional abuse. He told me he doesn't think his mother loves him and actually said, "I am emotionally abused." When I showed some concern, he reassured me that it wasn't physical abuse. It was like he wanted to talk about it, but being a teenage boy, I guess it was hard to do and I could tell it was ackward for him. I was speechless - I didn't have a clue what to say. He has my number and I tell him to call if he ever needs to talk. I suppose it would help a little for him to know that he does have a contact outside his home, if his home is as bad as I fear it may be.
 I know emotional abuse probably becomes very complicated when you start dealing with a 15 year old boy. What kind of advice can you give me to talk to him about next time it comes up? I know it's hard for teenage boys to share or show their emotions, but what are the signs of actual emotional abuse in a teenage boy? He seems to take me seriously and looks up to me, I guess because I'm an older peer. I want to help him, but I don't know how to. Any advice?
 Thanks