I am fifteen and I took LSD six days ago. Ever since my extremely bad trip I've been met with anxiety and what I think may be depression. I recall having some anxiety as a small child but it was easily resolved. I was in a good mental and physical state before dropping acid. After tripping I occasionally get waves of anxiety, my heart beat will accelerate and I become frightened. As time passes the intensity of the anxiety and panic tapers off. I just need reassurance it will continue to taper and I will return to how I was before taking LSD.
I'll tell you about my trip so you know what I went through. I had just gotten off of school and I had school the next day. We arrived at his house around 4pm and I decided I was going to drop acid that night and just go to school the next day. We started walking back because I wanted to trip at my house, he walked with me in case I started tripping on the way and needed to guided. I took a single tab as we started walking. I didn't feel it until we got near my house and I felt a pang of panic. It quickly subsided and we continued towards my home, I was beginning to feel it. As I got nearer to my house I began giggling and smiling for no reason. We arrived at my house and parted ways. I went inside and decided I would explore the internet while tripping. The effects were getting stronger and stronger. I began to panic again, I had not anticipated it being so intense so quick. I decided I need my friend. I had also heard from another friend that eating would dull a trip. I decided to eat an apple, which in retrospect was idiotic considering it could have fueled the trip. I, after getting and apple went outside and chased after my friend. It had been about ten or fifteen minutes since we had parted so he was long gone. I quickly was met with more panic because I felt that I was running too fast. I dropped my apple and began walking back home. I went inside and started pacing through the house, mind you my step-mother was home at the time and was unaware I was tripping or that I smoked. After pacing a bit I then begged my step-mother for a Xanax because I read it is capable of ending or dulling a trip. Now, she had a Xanax because she is riddled with health issues coming from her past drug usage (not LSD, apparently she has used something that goes by the name of K-2, I'm not familiar with that drug). She has severe anxiety and accelerated heart beat. She is allergic to a lot of medication so she is constantly trying new medication trying to find something that consistantly helps her. Anyways, she freaked out and called my Dad. He came home and they took me to the hospital. He kept saying he was disappointed. We went into the emergency room and they got me set up. My heart began racing even faster. My Dad called my Mom and when she showed up she began crying. My heart beat peaked at 160 beats per minute. I was given something that is supppsed to knock you out and I stayed awake but my family calmed me down and my heart beat regulated. We were in there for awhile, my Dad left to go to his weekly pool game and my mother remained at my bedside. We left around nine. I stayed at her house and I felt significantly calmer and I relaxed for awhile. I tried going to sleep but couldn't, I had read LSD causes this so I didn't panic. After awhile I got scared I wouldn't be able to immerse myself into daily life again. That the experience would somehow permanently damage me. I went to this site; tripsit.me. it calmed me down enough. I browsed reddit until I fell asleep around 4am. I slept a lot the next day and was fairly calm. My parents called me in sick from school. I felt a little dissociated from things the next day but I remained calm. I went back to my Dad's house on friday night and I gave him all my marijuana paraphernalia. We talked for awhile, he said he was disappointed but he loves me. He said that LSD now isn't the same as the 60's and that there is meth in it. My family is disappointed but they aren't rejecting me. I hope they understand I've learned my lesson. Anyways, I went to work with my father on Saturday and I played on an old DS to stay occupied, I knew I had to just move on. On sunday I was fine most of the day but around 6pm I felt my heart rate getting faster and I felt a lot of anxiety. I ate very little dinner and went to bed. Over the weekend I did have some caffeine if that might have contributed. I had a cold the whole weekend and it was waning on Monday. On Monday I went to school and prepared for finals because this is finals week. I had anxiety and a fast heart beat all day and by the end of the day I was exhausted and I felt a lot of fatigue. After school ended I went home and I tried to fall asleep, because I couldn't I played games for awhile and relaxed. Went to sleeo around 9pm, I didn't have much trouble falling asleep. The anxiety is becoming less intense and my heart beat isn't accelerating as much. I've been running recently to feel better. Yesterday after I ran I felt really good. I felt at the time completely normal. Today at school I had very little anxiety and I felt normal at the end of the school day. When I got home I still felt fine. After I ran I began to feel some anxiety and lack of motivation which led me to write this. I need some answers. Do I just need to power through now and I'll feel good again over time? What's going on and is it normal?. I've ceased smoking and really all drugs, including caffeine. I'm open to smoking again but in the far future, as long as I don't feel like this. Will I be okay?