Hello to everyone.
Here's another story for the site!
Married with 2 boys for 22 years.  Husband and I start taking dancing lessons together. Ballroom. Husband gets involved with female instructor and starts spending additional time and money on 'private' lessons.  This is 'so he can catch up' as he feels I am a better dancer.  An affair emerges. The female instructor is married with 2 girls.  Her husband finds out, files for divorce, and my husband gets a summons in the mail to appear at THEIR divorce hearing as a witness. This is how I find out.
Their relationship ends abruptly when I confront him.  Now I don't trust him.  Two years go by.  Marriage is greatly strained, threats of divorce are thrown around by us both like popcorn at a horror flick. One afternoon I come home and Husband picks a fight.  He has been drinking. (always been an issue for him) Mid fight, he tells me "he has found someone else".  I proceeded to take my wedding ring off, throw it at him, and then punched him in the jaw. (uncool, very uncool)  As I tried to leave the house, he follows me and physically tries to stop me from leaving.  My two sons are home (15 & 17).  Oldest son pulls his dad off me so I can get away, then drives to local pd, files a report, and then the police start looking for him. (i didn't know this at the time but he had hit my oldest son). We are both arrested for domestic assault.  He is charged with assault on a minor.  He moves out for about 6 months.....gets sober.....asks to come home.....i say ok on three conditions.....you guessed it.......stop drinking, get a sponsor, and go to regular meetings.   This lasts another 6 months.  His father dies  He turns nasty and self centered.  "All about me show".
He moves out again. This time into the house his parents had left after their deaths.   I am served with divorce papers from a female attorney in town.  Yuuupppp!!! You guessed it.  He had an affair with her while she was married AND representing him.  Oh my god.  How much more of this can I take!!  It's been two years and we still haven't been able to get a date with the judge.  Mostly due to the fact that SHE finally withdrew representation, HE decided to represent himself.....(with the loving advice from his mistress the LAWYER)........and now has finally gotten a male attorney to represent him.  All of this in an attempt to drag out the divorce.  Anyway.  At this time I am awaiting a court date.  This is the first time I have told my story and I thank you for reading it.  I feel much better getting the information out.  As both my boys have told me at one time or another......'Mom, you're the strongest person I know"...........deep down I know they are right!  Carry On!!!    :)