My dad and I live together. My mother and father were divorced some 15 years ago. They recently got back together about a year ago. Needless to say my mom moved in with us which I thought was ok at first but now it *****. I knew my mother was a wineo but after they were divorced my mother went to live on her own where her drinking increased. 15 years later  she moved in with us and she shortly lost her job and now relys on my dad and myself to pay the bills. My dad more than anything but I help him now. I am already in a tough position being injured and just making ends meet. After losing her job her drinking really picked up to the point that she has turned to taking shots with her wine. She drinks about 2 bottles a night minimum in a span of 4-5 hours. She sleepwalks and does things like fiddle with the thermostat, eat, argue with someone that's not there. She talks in her sleep for the first 3-4 hours after she goes to bed regularly!. My poor dad gets up at 5am for work. They are starting to sleep in seperate rooms and she thinks its ok. I guess because her parents always slept in separate rooms. I never understood the situation and still dont.. I am a recovering addict myself. Clean over 10 years. I dont even count or pay attention to it anymore. I can relate to her and even tried laying it out there that I am an addicts well. She knows what I had to deal with. Come to think of it she never told me to stop using. She was sort of just there in the rehab facility. My hole life my mother has been a super CLOSED person and never talked about anything that was going on. She still cant communicate. I went off today which is what brought me to seek answers else ware. I left my house when I was 17 and got an apartment to live on my own. Mom and dad divorced when I was 18. I have a 33 year old sister and 28 year old brother. I never had much contact with my mom throughout the years we didn't live together even though we only lived 2 miles away. One could argue that I never made an effort but the same thing could be argued on her end. My dad put her through nursing school while he worked and took care of us kids after he got home from work. She took care of us in the mornings until I was about 15 MAX. My brother only 10 years old, my sister 14. My sister went to live with my dad and my brother with my mom. It was hard on all of us. To this day none of us got an apology from mom. Like everything she thinks if she ignores it it didn't happen.  When I started driving I really became independent. She was a good mother in those 15 years she was around for me. When They divorced is when I pretty much lost my mother. I never knew my mother as an adult until just a year or so ago. We really had little interaction in the years leading up to my dad and her getting back together. I always have held resentment towards her but she would never talk about it. They divorced because my mom cheated on my dad with his best friend, my godfather! The alcohol also played a big role in the relationship as my mom would treat my dad like **** when she drank and would just do embarrassing ****. It wasn't the main reason but I realized how much of an issue it was when my dad expressed how he hated how she drank. She put such a strain on our family and still expects the utmost respect from us. It seems as though she thinks just because she gave birth to me that my love and respect should come automatically no matter what she does. I have pleaded with her many times while living with me that she not go to bed drunk because she sleepwalks and disturbs me. My dad wont say anything to her and will stay out of it to avoid an argument. meanwhile him not saying anything makes her think she is in the right. Anytime I bring up the drinking she gets offended and starts saying **** like how can you talk to your mother like that. She tries to flip the script and even starts to cry sometimes. That **** is getting old and now just pisses me off if she starts crying. I honestly think I am a bit messed up for all of this. Like I prob need to talk to a shrink. I'm sure it has taken a toll on me mentally and emotionally. I love my mom but she has become very annoying with this and I dont have any respect left for her. Its gone, out the window. I am sure now that she lost her job because of her drinking. She wasn't drinking on the job or anything but her drinking in excess the night before just makes her lethargic and just not with it. From what I remember she was so much sharper years back. she is only in her mid 50s so its not memory loss or anything like that. She just doesnt seem with it anymore. No motivation at all. She wont even spend the time to put together a nice resume. Everything she does anymore is BARE MINIMUM and most times that just isn't good enough. She has gained so much weight at the same time. She is slowly killing herself. I dont remember her being like this. She never would have made it through the nursing program if so. She is a smart person but will act like a complete idiot about things she doesn't want to do no matter how bad she portrays herself to get out of something. I dont know what to do. I am ready to leave my own home because of her. Sorry for rambling. I have just so much going through my mind right now. I still feel like I barely touched on the situation here. How do I get her to stop drinking? Our relationship is going downhill and fast! She is not in the best health and dont think her quality of life will be much to expect if she keeps drinking and eating the way she does. She is right on target with a heart attach or stroke.