Hello! I'm 20 years old and a guy.
 I've been feeling really low lately. Sometimes I've cried as well, when I'm not even a person who cries. I get the low feeling when I'm on my own. I hate being on my own. 
 Things I don't like...
 1) I've recently finished college (it was a 2 year Uni course). I used to have a big huge laugh everyday with those I used to hang around with - only me and three others. Now it's ended, we've gone from seeing eachother everyday to now nothing. I enjoy laughing, and laughing takes your mind off of other things. I keep asking them if they want to meet up. As I use iMessage I can see if they've read the message or not. They read it but don't reply to me. 
 I have a job which is still part-time at the moment because i've only recently finished college about 2-3 weeks ago. I like my job, I like everyone who I work with, and customers (it's in a store) make me smile a lot, but it's no replacement.
 2) I don't feel confident about how I look. I think it's inherited but i'm quite hairy. Girls don't like loads of hair on a guy. When I was wearing shorts once my Mum joked, pointed at the telly and it was some monkey and she said "you've got the same legs". Yep, I know it mind sound funny, but as i'm self-conscious about it, it made me feel even more self-conscious. 
 I'm only about 5'8" too and I know girls like tall guys. Other people my age always seem really tall like 6ft. They're all muscular as well and i'm weedy. I'd be too embarrassed of myself to go to a gym. I know this is changeable but is this possible from home?
 3) I look young. Someone told me today that she thought I looked 16. I'm 20. I know it'll be better in the future, but it hits me back a bit. I'm so boring i've never gone on a night out or drank alcohol but if I did, it'd be like a group of 20 year olds taken their younger brother out or something. The one always getting ID checks. 
 4) I've got a fear of crowds. If i'm in a busy area sometimes I feel I can't swallow and my breathing goes a bit funny and fast. When I get really worried about stuff, I feel light headed too. 
 5) My sister hates me for some reason. I will admit, I do annoy her sometimes but I only want someone to talk to and try and have a laugh with. She just shouts and swears back at me. She's almost 18 and other brothers' and sisters' get on well. Like my cousins... they're brother and sister and get on really well. 
 6) I worry way too much and always think of the worst. I found a bump on my left testicle. I was terrified about going to the Doctor about it. I went and got a scan and it turned out to be varicose veins, but it's still there and I still worry about it. 1 year on. When i'm cold, it goes and when i'm hot, it returns. Bit like if you're hot and your veins show up more. I also found a bump on my shoulder. Was thinking the worst and it turned out to be nothing. 
 7) In the space of less than a year, my Great Aunt, Great Nan and Grandad all passed away. They were all the nicest people ever possible and I loved them all so much. It's been 2-3 years since they passed away but I still really miss them and get upset still. My Great Aunt was so funny, loving, was always there at Christmas family gatherings, my Great Nan was really loving, generous, kind, and my Grandad was like a Dad. My Mum & Dad split up when I was 4. He wasn't around at all really and only visited about once a month. My Grandad was always there, going out with us, making me smile.
 8) I really want to be a broadcast journalist / news reader. It's my dream career. No one seems to want to listen to what I want to do in life. No one takes me seriously. 
 9) I've never found love. I know you shouldn't feel like "I wish I was him" but sometimes I do. I'll be walking around on my own and see couples looking happy, holding hands, hugging and I just wish I was that happy. Speaking of hugging, I feel it's a really nice thing yet it never happens to me either. At work, they moved me to a different department which I didn't like. After 5 months, I returned to the department I liked working in. When I told someone before I returned to the old department, she just smiled, said "at last" and gave me a hug. It felt good and hugging just feels like away to relive everything. 
 I know all those 9 things probably sound really selfish because there are people dying in the world, there are wars, people missing, homeless people, but everyone I know seems to be really confident and happy. I want to be confident and happy. I want a good long life!
 Where do I start?