I am a 38-year-old woman and have suffered from severe depression for the past two years. Last year, I started thinking a lot about my relationship with my paternal grandfather. He died about 5 years ago. I know that this will sound very cruel and heartless but I was not very saddended by his death. It hurt to watch my grandmother, mother and daughter who were all close to him suffer but I knew that I was not going to miss him at all. My grandparents divorced before I was born but according to my mom, I was around him off and on b/t the ages of 2 and 12. I do not remember spending time with him during that time except for once and all I really recall from that is riding alone in a car with him and him telling me jokes. He was an alcoholic. When I was 12, he and my grandmother reconciled and remarried and both quit drinking. I was not happy about their remarriage but probably b/c I had been able to spend so much time alone with my grandmother and knew that our alone times were over. However, ever since I can remember, I always felt extremely uncomfortable around my grandfather. He was a very emotional person (suffered through childhood abuse, grew up in an orphanage) and he needed to be reassured of our love for him. He felt loved when family members expressed their love through physical affection - hugs, kisses, etc. Ever since I could remember, I never felt comfortable hugging or kissing him. In fact, the thought of doing it or actually being forced to do it made me physically sick to my  stomach. I have never been a very touchy person and it is difficult for me to show affection to my family (except for my daughter and even then that can sometimes be difficult). I remember my grandmother talking to me about how much it hurt my grandfather's feelings that I couldn't simply give him a hug and kiss good-bye. I couldn't explain to her or anyone else why it bothered me and didn't want to hurt his feelings so I started telling people I wasn't comfortable hugging or kissing anyone.
 Last year, I started really thinking about this and wondered if there was a possibility that he could have sexually abused me at some point. I am not sure that I believe in repressed memories and I know how controversial they are. I approached the subject with my mother and she said that when she was 16, my grandfather (her father) had been drinking and kissed her goodnight but it was an inappropriate father-daughter kiss. She also said that she had concerns that he had done something to me b/c I acted strangely (very clinging) after a visit I had alone with him. She said that she and my dad didn't want to plant any ideas in my head and since I never said anything about it, they decided to let it go. I was probably 5 or 6 at the time.
 Sorry to go on so long. I just wonder if anyone here has any similar experiences or any advice. It's really bothering me. I wish I could either just let this go or remember something so that I can deal with it and move on. Am I just creating memories to help me cope with feeling guilty for not likeing my grandfather?  Does anyone have any suggestions for safely recovering repressed memories?