Please help: Trying to help a friend protect her 3 year old Daughter from an abusive Father and I can use some advice to help them through this issue. 
 For the last few months, the child has been saying that her Father has been hurting her private parts, not rape just aggressively molesting so the rape kits done by the hospital came back negative from the Hospital. This of course has embolden the Father and he has continued the abuse and it's getting worse (recently she disclosed that he is forcing her to eat her own poo and when he leaves a bruise, he alleges very aggressively that the Mother did it).
 And worse: There has been incidents where the Daughter came back from visitation with him (over the weekends) with irritation, bleeding, bruising, etc., but he has used every excuse in the book (quite literally saying a book fell on her vagina, among other excuses) to make it seem like he is innocent and then turned the abuse allegations against the mother. He is now suing for full-custody in a custody battle that has the Mother extremely nervous because now he alleging parental alienation against the Mother. He has been suing for full-custody ever since the Child was born. 
 They have a Parental Agreement that was court ordered that is forcing the Daughter to go with him every weekend. He himself has done things in violation of other parts this Parental Agreement, but since the Agreement is Court Ordered he continuously uses it as a way to get the Child & continue the abuse despite not following other provisions in the Agreement.
 How can they protect the child when there is a court ordered agreement that the Father gets the daughter every weekend? Is there a safe way to withhold visitation? She is nervous to withhold again because she doesn't want 3 strikes and the possibility of the abusive Father getting full custody because she withheld the Child. What would be a good strategy to take to protect this child?
 The Mother has already opened up a few DCFS cases, gone to numerous hospital visits and even talked to the police (I am now tempted to go to the FBI but that might be too much); but the case is not being investigating quick enough to protect the Child as the Father is very good at covering his tracks. He basically abuses the Child, and then uses the abuse as an attack against the Mother. The Daughter is comfortable talking to her Mom about it and other Family members, but has not been comfortable enough to disclose to DCFS or any investigator / authority who can help.
 Would a Child Psychologist be able to work with the 3 year old to get to the bottom of this? Could that be used in Court to prevent the Child from being forced to sleep over with the Father? 
 What about a Pediatrician who specializes with this type of abuse? Can anyone recommend a directory to find such a professional?
 The Mother already has a Lawyer and the Child has a Guardian Ad Litem, but there isn't any clear direction of what to do to prevent the Daughter from being forced to go to the Father's house and continuously get abused. The Father is very aggressive with wanting even more time (he is suing for full-custody), and this is becoming extremely detrimental to the child. With each week that goes by that she has to go with him, the situation is getting worse and worse and the Mother is at a loss on to how to protect her child.
 It is extremely tragic that the law would force a Child to go with an abusive parent, but that is exactly what is happening. How can the Mother protect this child better? Continuing to let the Child go with the Father just to wait for more evidence to get collected very much seems like enabling the abuse and I would like a better option on what to do.
 Please advise! ... Thank-you!