To start, I want to emphasize that there is NO chance that I'm pregnant. I've never had sex so I am absolutely positive. 
 Anyway, I just moved in for the my first year of college a couple of days ago, and every single morning this week I have woken up with pretty severe/crippling nausea that lasts for several hours and makes it almost impossible for me to even get up and try to push through it. Basically I wake up and feel fine for a moment or two before I feel this jolt of nervousness or anxiety that goes right to my stomach and makes me really jittery and shaky. I've tried to lie still and breathe deeply to let it pass as well as get up and walk around a little bit, but even if I feel better for a few minutes I end up coughing really hard or retching which then causes me to vomit, usually twice within a span of about ten minutes. After I vomit I feel better for a couple of minutes before the feeling pretty much returns. I can't eat when I'm like this (unless you count literally nibbling at a cracker) and it keeps me from getting up and showering and starting my day. At first I thought the problem might have been caused by the fact that I just started taking birth control pills (to help with menstrual cramps, etc), but the morning nausea has persisted even after I called my doctor and stopped taking them. I thought it would pass after the first two days of being nervous about new college life, but it hasn't and this CAN'T keep going on! My classes begin in two days, and they start at 8:30 am which means I need to be able to get up and be ready. I'm going to see the campus health office today, but seeing as this is likely caused by anxiety (even though I feel fine about college the rest of the day) I don't know what they can do for me. I read that plenty of other people go through this same sort of thing, but I really really can't stand feeling this horrible for HOURS every single morning, nor can I afford to once classes start. I'm absolutely miserable.
 I've tried taking Tums to calm my stomach but it doesn't work if I'm REALLY nauseous. Is there anything else I can take? Or maybe is there a way to prevent it?