I’ve been diagnosed with bipolar and been okay with this label as I can track back episodes of high and depressive episodes since the age of 12 which are in my health records. My meds for bipolar work partially but cyclical mood symptoms break through at times. My CPN has repeatedly said she disagrees with the diagnosis and is more in favour of BPD and I am going to be reassessed. 
Looking at the criteria I’m not sure. I suffer low self esteem, insecurity over relationships with people which sometimes gets me paranoid especially if I am depressed. I always thought that was due to past abuse. However generally I have stable relationships with people, I don’t self harm or get angry – perhaps irritable when in a ‘hyper’ episode. When I feel 'hyper' I do impulsive things like crash cars thinking I'm invincible or spend money – I spent thousands this year in a matter of a couple of months, even got a boob job LOL which I guess might indicate some self image issues (?) My CPN tells me these episodes of being 'hyper' which last weeks-months are not mania but euphoria (?). Sometimes I do feel like I’m two different people – the depressed anxious socially avoidant one and the hyper confident reckless one....and they contrast so much I sometimes wonder who the real me is..Also if I don’t take anti-psychotic medication I become psychotic so I am on meds long term.
Additionally I have cognitive problems especially memory and attention. Most my long term memories are so shot my friends can’t believe that I have totally forgotten significant events. My short term memory is so bad I am about to lose my job over it. Spoke to a couple of close friends about it and they strongly disagree with BPD possibility (but they aren’t that knowledgable on the condition) Feels like I need a correct diagnosis to understand the root of my problems, because treating symptoms when you don’t know the cause can only help so much? Sorry for the long post but do I sound borderline to you? Of course I am going to get assessed would just appreciate your thoughts in the meantime.