Hey guys,
 My friend - in her 40's recently split up with her partner of 20'odd years after having 3 children together. The two suddenly just did not see eye-to-eye anymore.
It was a very hard breakup, the husband has become very narcisistic and her two young teenage boys (14 and 12) have almost been "brainwashed" by her husband. They are living in different houses, but the youngest boys have been turned totally against her. She's had her house broken into twice by the boys - messing everything up in the process and breaking very personal items to her.
She's wiped her laptop clean recently as it had a virus, the boys stole it and found out all their files were gone (obviously) and her ex husband has put into the boys mind that this is fraud and that they should do something.
 Shortly after the break up, the husband physically punched her in both eyes giving her very huge bruises - in retaliation she scratched him on his arm, which he showed the boys and the boys now believe she initiated the attack.
 My problem is, I feel so helpless when she comes crying to me asking for comfort... what on earth do I say to someone who's whole entire life has suddenly been so violently and traumatically turned around?!
 The boys want nothing to do with her at all, her youngest daughter (only 4) is kept mostly oblivious from all of this - though obviously she's allowed contact with her father and brothers, you can tell she's terribly confused despite seeming like she's coping with the whole situation well.
 It's so very disgusting what he's doing to her and her niáve boys, they were very well behaved kids - I used to give the oldest boy guitar lessons and he's very intelligent, well spoken and usually very calm - but suddenly, after being taken from her by her husband, he's this violent, irrational and uncontrollable boy, bent purely on destroying his own mothers life (that's what it looks like, anyway).
We don't blame the children at all, we know it's difficult and very hard for them, and the situation is totally new and stressful for everyone. It's the fathers fault for filling their minds with nonsense and giving them ideas to put towards a "collective vendetta" towards her. 
 Please help! 
 Cheers,
 - John -