Im been withdrawing off seroquel/amitriptlyne for the past 3 months with everyday being a living hell. 
 Ive been on every anti depresseant in the book and have had severe insomnia since I was 5. Ive gone through so many psychiatrists and psychologists in my young life that ive lost count. I know i cant get better so i dont need advice that may help less severely messed up people.
 My doctor put me on amitriptyline as a medication to help me sleep after all anti depressants failed to help my anxiety which caused my insomnia. It was a gift and a curse. My bowels have been obstructed so many times from the constipation that i have one bowel moment every 3 weeks. After 5 years amitriptyle stopped helping me sleep but the severe constipation didnt go away. Tired of all the side effects 3 months ago i quit cold turkey. Ive had suicidal depression everyday for the past 3 months. I never had depression this severe b4 the amitriptlyne. For the insomnia ive tried trazadone zopiclone seroquel clonazapam...havent gotten any sleep for the past 3 months. I cant think and my mind is constantly thinking i want to shoot myself. I can handle the body pains, the hot flashes, everything about the withdrawl except my mind going crazy. 
 Anyways i dont have a long term plan. My constipation is actually going away after years due to stopping the drug. I go to my psychiatrist and he shrugs his shoulders...he will prescribe me whatever i ask for because he knows ive tried everything. Hes suggesting olanzapine next.
 Ive realized one thing. My issue has always been anxiety..causing insomnia causing more anxiety. The only thing the amitriptyne helped was the insomnia due to the anti histamine. Same with seroquel. Thats whats causing the constipation too...the anti histamine. It was never depression that i needed help with..until now. The amitrilylne never helped my anxiety..but being able to sleep helped a bit.
 Anyways i havent killed myself yet but here are my choices:
 Go back on amitriptylne...hopefully it starts working again after pooping out since ive been off for 3 months. Having severe constipation is better then wanting to die every second
 Go on an antihistamine...thats all it was doing for me anyway.
 Go on olanzapine..same family as seroquel. Another drug which has antihistamine. Seroquel also helped for a while then stopped
 Clonidine? 
 Any other options...im at the point where i need to stabalize so plz dont mention yoga. I tried meditating today and realized i cant until i am at a level of normal crazy.