Hi everyone,
I was wondering if anyone can help me...
My boyfriend and I were in a relationship for almost two years. Although we are still young (both age 22), we had a great relationship, we loved each other, and we even met each other parents. 
 However, a month before our break up, I was diagnosed with a tumor, and I pretty much completely shut down from our relationship. I started diminishing our text messages and our phone calls became short. I was too scared from my whole health problem and had depression (not severe)... I was also scared that he might freak out and leave me.... So I decided to end the relationship without even telling him what my reason was. I just simply told him that I was going through a lot of issues and that I would tell him everything when it's solved; (I wanted to tell him everything after I got better... I didn't want to be a burden in his life; since he was going through other problems).
 He begged me cried and couldn't (obviously) understand the reason of our break up, but at that time, I just didn't care.... He was being too clingy about the whole situation, so although I wanted him on my side, I felt like he wouldn't be able to be supportive. 
 After a month, I decided to go to his house and beg him to get back with me. I cried and begged him to get back with me... But I STILL DID NOT TELL HIM WHY I BROKE UP WITH HIM........................... (I know it sounds stupid)... He told me he does not want to go through the pain he had when we broke up, and he even said that I should stop being so foolish about myself while crying... He said he doesn't want his last memory of me being like that. 
 He was really bitter, so I was at that time and decided to forget about him... And now, a year has passed since our separation and I am desperate to get back.... I have been on medication, and my condition has gotten better, but I  still go to the hospital every other week. I had to quit my job and now I feel worse about myself... I am willing to NOW explain everything!!! I finally had the realization of wanting to do anything to get back with him... But I feel it's too late.... After our break up, I have seen him partying and drinking with his friends every weekend, enjoying life as if he is having the time of his life.... 
 I haven't spoke to him ever since the day I begged him to get back with me.... I recently texted him just asking him how he was... He replied saying he has been good. We had a very brief and dry conversation through text message and he cut me off saying he wishes I am doing well and he will go to sleep........................
 How am I supposed to try to talk to him again?? I am scared that if I start talking to him out of nowhere he might get turned off...........like how he was when I begged him to get back with me sudden after our break up. What is the best way to have a casual conversation so I don't instantly tell him everything and scare him away...