Hi,
 I've been out of a 3 year relationship for around 5 months now. Initially I didn't know why we broke up. Anyway, we parted our separate ways and she started seeing other people for her sexual needs, and forming what could become future relationships and still is. Now, since about 4 months ago I found out the reasons we broke up was because she was unhappy, but I never had the chance to fix these things. So we decided to try and fix things, which has left me hopeful. Since then she is still sleeping around all though not as much and we still do the deed from time to time. I haven't found anyone else, cause let's face it, its harder for a guy to find a good time than a girl. We had a communication issue in our relationship which is the main reason she grew unhappy, it was both of our faults, I don't know how but it was. I told her everything, but we never spoke about her issues because she was "too scared of how I'd react". I've since spoken to many friends, colegues and social workers, even my parents. All of which say I'm find and she's the issue, they also say she is emotionally blackmailing me. I check her facebook almost everyday, and can't go longer than a few days without speaking to her, yet when I do, I get a short sharp reply, and can never make a conversation, she claims its because she's having a break from social media, yet I know its not, she's talking to others nicely and forming relationships constantly, even said she's loved 3 other people, and still she says she misses me, and that she still wants to fix things. I've met a few women since the breakup but its only been as friends, as that's my goal to prove to myself not all women are the same and that they don't all lie. 
 I don't know why I obsess over her, about what's she's doing, who she's doing it with, and I feel as if I can't control the situation, yet when we are together in person its completely different, no arguing and the way we were. She's the only one I'm having sexual relationships with, as I can't find another unless I'm paying for it, and frankly she's good at what she has done
 Throughout the relationship I had friends and family tell me I could do better but ignored them, I ignored the things that annoyed me about her, and helped her to mature a LOT one thing I can step back and say now is I put a lot of effort into the relationship, but the effort and the respect is not mutual.
 I want to listen to my friends, as I'm stressed all the time I still dream about her and hate being away from her, I've seen a phycologist to make sure I'm okay who has said I'm fine but she is blackmailing me. Mind you I'm very good at hiding the way I really feel from others and letting it bottle up. I feel now I can't be honest with my friends and family as were keeping us working things out a Secret as they'll all have a go at me or her saying that's a stupid thing to do
 I've never ever held onto someone thiw hard before. One side of me wants to do something, the other doesn't I really don't want her out of my life all together, and I would like to be back with her, but at the same time I know that's not the best thing
 Sorry if this post is all over the place, it like me, is lost, stressed and disorganised. I really need help, but I don't know what to do, how to let go and move on. I love her too much and am a slave to my emotions.