I was writing Narla and I feel into tears realizing I hate myself.  My sons disrespect is deserved.  I married an older man who was married and lied to me when I was 18.  We have 3 sons.  I did not get child support.  I was a waitress and worked 7 days a week for years.  They were fighting over food and had no clothing that fit and screaming in terror at babysitter options.  I needed out, so I decided to find a man.  I hit the bars at night.  Found mister right now.  He had a home.  I went to college to become a nurse immediately !!  He cheated, stayed drunk and brought home STDs.  during nursing school I had to leave when he brought home from the bar a couple to swap.  3 sons still early childhood 5,6,8,. Went through a boy friend then .Found another cheater to watch the kids while I finished school and gained some understanding of the field of nursing.  He cheated until the women called the house and then he left!  I was putting his laundry in his closet and found it empty. sons now 7th grade 8th grade freshman.  I took them to church and went every wednesday and sundays and found people to help us.  My sons hate me and I hate me to.  It has been up until now they are 27,28,30 that I have been trying to buy back their love !! I can't stay out of the guilt.  I lie in bed with awaking thoughts of bad decision after bad decision.  I wish I could go back and hold my son's instead I was to afraid they would be "poor white trash"  I did it.  I DID IT no one else did it.  I hurt them. I was in a hurry and afraid and desperate!  
Other people who don't leave there kids father like I did get a pass from the kids.  All is forgiven to the one who did not give up. I'm the quitter!  Destined to spend the rest of my life without my children.  Well yeah. I'm not returning to school to get my anesthesia degree, I keep lying in bed feeling like why?  why? nothing matters anymore....
I can't seem to get myself off the cross and find anything worth living for.  I give to a church and homeless group and work work work but inside is a house of pain.  Does anyone have any suggestions for me?