Hello- This seems a rather complex situation so please bear with. My girl and I, both age 28, have dated coming on 4 years, and we have made it through many issues successfully. A week ago her mother had a stroke out of the blue, sustaining major damage to the brain. A couple days later, incidentally my girlfriends birthday only to compound things, her mother in ICU passed after a lung copllapsed. For her and I this was already difficult, as her and mom were very  very close. I was permitted to be there, but was never her crying shoulder. I had become very close to mom over the last couple years, and the rest of the family as well. After a grueling 5 days at the hospital, and her mothers passing, I am pretty hard up for affection as I am the more needy emotional one in the relationship- and she now shuts me out fully. She told me to go home by myself while her and the rest of her family (several there, over 20 people sat in expectantly as her mother died) went tho her house  to  bond. This was only the beginning. Three days later I was frustrated with the state of affairs, and still had a scrapbook to give her which I made for her birthday. SO I gentlytreaded in my eggshell friendly tip toe shoes to be permitted permission to visit, if briefly/. . Until now my coping with her moms death has been mostly alone, and feeling cast out. my showing of emotion around her family upsets her greatly at this ppoint, anbd she is highly irritable. . I thought outr evening was going ok, until however she suddenly said, you know this isnt going to work. Im confused, and the funeral still isnt until next saturday (brother, military worried about promotion, comes home two days befpre, on my birthday as it is, canceling that day) She then gives me the gift her mother had purchased for me prior to her stroke, despite me asking to get it on my bday. The implication is clear however that she has zero intention of seeing me on this day or maybe never. Im of course beside myself, and she has the stoic look of a sociopath contemplating either murder or what condiment to put on a burger and this girl is the warmest, most loving person I have ever known previously.  I call her later, and speakl with her, and appeal to her to hold off on decisions so important. The next day though, (this is where further complications arise) I speak with a mutual friend(drug dealer). Her and I are both at university, me a senior slacker and her a sophomore busting her butt to succeed. She has also turned a former recreational use habit of adderral 30s into something more- Im not sure really because she hides it. She would say she eats a half either every day or every other day- she does not have add/adhd. I over the last 6 months have notivced rising itrritability, which I just attributed to stress and me being high maintainence. She al;ways mandated it was for school only, and her study sessions could exceed 8 hours- even after a full day. This was a problem then, as I felt neglected- seems dumb after hger mothers passing though really. ANYWAY, I spoke with the dealer, and casually asked if she had reupped her supply for the month- she obtains entire perscriptions of 30mg s. Apparently that was scheduled for tomorrow, and lightbulbs started going off in my mind. She dropped school the second her mom was hospitalized, so this was no longer a valid excuse to use. Im no angel, but care to not see her go down any roads I have struggled over if I can help it. Perhaps this had something to do with her shutdown? Her increased irritability before her mom was sick even? The only time I ever addressed this as a concern previously she was PISSED and hung up on me. This time was worse. I casually asked what she needed these for with no homework to do, and she immediately went on defensive, and called me the worst combination of names I think she has ever done- ever. I told her that If she wouldnt discuss it with me I could see to her being cut off from our friend, or if she stonewalled me I would inform her aunt of my concern. This resulted in sudden blockage on all social media, including electronic breakup with no fore warning. Half her family also blocked me, and she even went as far as to erase a post I had made on her mothers memorial page with the funeral home site.clearly distressed, I set out and arrive to her home, and her aunt greets me. My girl has came out with some kind of version of the truth, which was that she occasionally used adderral for school only, and I was cut out to be a psycho. Her aunt's son had a terrible meth problem for years, so I was taken aback when she said "she is coping! Leave her alone!" Apparently she knows not that adderral is pharmmeth virtually, and also is not educated to potential risks/ siude effects. After research, I listed a number of side effects she frequents aside from irritability, such as poersisting headache day by day, bad breath from dry mouth even though she hydrates/works out more than I do by fardecreased drive to do anything with me(befor moms death for over a month) including sex- twice in 2014 is how many times a day we used to enjoy each other.Mostly though her reaction both times I ever brought up the potential for abuse and her display of addiction seeking behavioswhich could be attribuyed to persistent amphetamine use- and this would be strictly pharm, no street drugs.My deep co\cern here howerver is what the heck do I do? Im worried sick about her, and her mother was the only even minded persaon in the family to moderate this type of nonsense.Her aunt is liable to join her side no matter what, and I really worry that enabling her to think she is acting in an acceptable manner would be a bad idea. I mean she acts so cold now I could be a stranger on the street. She becomes irate over nothing- but the mention of me obstructing her supply was the worst she has ever come off the handle. How do I approach this amidst bereavement?help!