I just found out that my husband of 22 years had an encounter with a sexual act when he was 9 years old. He has been hurting for quite some while, not outwardly but within himself. We have been very involved with our church and have been really seeking to have a relationship with God. The only reason he confided in me is because he recently had a healing of memories at church. All he told me was that he felt at peace and he felt forgiven for what he had done when he was 9. I quickly began to make things up in my mind of what could have happend at such a yound age. I kind of figured it out after a while. We talked about it recently and he very reluctantly shared with me that when he was 9 he had a sexual encounter with his nephew that was also 9 years old. He cried and cried and told me that he was so ashamed and felt dirty. He said that when it happened that he knew it was wrong after it happened and that for many years he cried himself to sleep just thinking about the shame of it. I asked him if this was something that he instigated or was it something that was started by the nephew. He said that it was consentual. I asked him if it happened more than once, he said no that after that he was so ashamed and hurt by what had happened. I asked him if he ever felt that he had an attraction for boys or guys later on in life, he said no that he never ever felt that. I could ask him more questions that were on my mind because he was so torn and hurt. He has lived a pretty normal life and seems to have adjusted to his life pretty well, other than me and him having had some years of alot of arguing over our sex life. He has always been very atracted to me and has always wanted me sexually but there were MANY times that he couldn't get an erection, and I now think its because of what happened many many years ago. He is now 47 years old and feels that he needs to apologize to his nephew for what happened when they were 9. The reason I am writing is because I am so confussed about what was going thru his mind when this happened. Why he would even entertain the tought of this act. I know he was only a child, and perhaps wasnt thinking rationally. I love him with all my heart and would never leave him over this. He felt that I would leave him if I knew. I just want to know why he would even be attracted to the same sex at such a young age. It doesn't fit in my mind why he would do this when he was just a child. Does this mean that he is a pervert because he did this when he was 9? does this mean that he maybe liked the same sex at one time? does this mean he was psychologically there was or is something wrong with him? Since it only happened that one time could it just have been curiosity? I just don't understand how a child of 9 years could penetrate another child of 9 years is that even possible? How was this behaviour even conceived. I just don't remember even knowing about these sexual acts existing until I was an adult. Is this something that he would have had to have seen somewhere to even know how to do this or that this was even possible? I am so very, very, very, confussed beyond my imagination. Am I overreacting since this man that I married is not a perbert by any means, and this was a one time incident when he was just an innocent child that obviously changed when he did this. Please Please help me understand this.