When I was out of school for my 1st year,during college,my doctor said I had stress and anxiety disorder.I would break out in cold sweats and black out sometimes without warning.He put me on some anxiety meds.Later after my mom had past he put me on Deprozan. I had begun cutting myself and one morning around 1am,I had a bath and left my house walking because I needed to clear my head. I ended up in town and my brother had to call a taxi to come and fetch me to take me home. At the beginning of this year another doctor I had been to see while employed had put me on Valium. I don't feel any of this worked as I was still constantly having these bouts of sadness.The cutting had stopped after finding out I, who was unable to conceive, was pregnant with my son.I was never suicidal though. I had a very traumatic pregnancy as the relationship with my sons father and I was complicated to say the least.I almost lost my son twice due to the stress and harrasment from my ex boyfriend. I got through it and had a healthy 4.3kg baby. He is my life now and I honestly feel he saved me from the alcohol and drug induced life I had begun to live. I still constantly feel sad.Even when I'm happy,there is this nagging feeling underneath it all that just makes me sad.With my sons recent behavior and the depression I have been going through lately,I am just concerned that perhaps my depression is affecting him. I have random moments whereby one minute I will be happy and the next I'll be walking around the house sullen and close myself off alone in the room.I cry a lot,never knowing exactly what for because there are so many reasons I could be crying for.During this time,my son somehow senses this and though I hide, or try to hide the fact that I am crying..he will come to me and just hug me for ages.Kissing me and telling me he loves me.This makes me sadder because he's a little boy..he's only 4yrs old.My greatest fear is that he will grow up constantly worrying about me and if he's going to find mommy crying when he gets home today. I do not want this for him.But I don't know how to stop it. Most times I don't even know when it is going to happen.As I said,everything will be fine and the next minute the slightest reminder of some past hurt and I am morbid.Is my son feeling my depression? And if so,how do I stop whats out of my control? I don't want my son to feel what I feel.Its dark and ugly and painful.