My husband has been taking Percocet for chronic pain for several years now abd recently had back surgery, so he is currently taking more than usual, but still within prescribed guidelines. He has become increasingly irritable any time I disagree with him or don't do exactly what he says. Tonight he was giving one of our dogs a pill and she spit it out; one of the pups we have in the house came over and swallowed it. He insisted that it was only half the pill, but I said I thought it was the whole thing because I saw it right before the pup ate it. He got angry and said I wasn't listening to him; I said I knew what I saw. He flipped out yelling, calling me a f***ing b***h, saying I'd been a b***h for a month now. He had similar but smaller outbursts on way home from surgery and right when we got home from surgery, and has occasionally done this in the past, but it's becoming more frequent. Sometimes he apologizes, sometimes not. Earlier this evening I'd told him flat out I didn't want to keep live quail for hunting dogs to train with in a pen at our house, this was after he brought it up earlier this morning and I'd said I didn't like the idea, but he ignored me and put up on FB that he wanted ideas on how to do it best, so I calmly told him I didn't want to do it, bc we already have a lot going on (pets, him not working full time due to pain, lots of bills, etc etc). Could this be an increasing side effect of the Percocet? He has ben seeing a therapisy, as have I, due to stress and problems with depression and OCD. I've been struggling with switching my own meds for this and have been a little more irritable lately, as well as being a bit more assertive about communcating when something makes me unhappy (i.e. caring for game birds when I already have so much to do that I often feel completely overwhelmed), but I don't think I've been a "total b***h" or deserve to be treated like this. It's too late to call my therapist and I just needed to talk to someone. He is now sleeping soundly, while I'm here trying not to cry, and wondering if we will get to our 4th wedding anniversary.