I had a semi-tough upbringing. Dad was an alcoholic, and my mother really tried, but we didn't get along very well when I was in High School (my fault for being a rebel). Since I didn't have much of a father figure I used to look up to James Bond a lot as a kid. I though the way he would swoon the girl and how though and charming he was, was like the ultimate superman. I would leave the movie theater and literally pretend to be him, I realize now due to an identity crisis and having no manly role model. With that being said, I had always been addicted to the new feeling of meeting a girl. Like the hopeless romantic part of making love and getting to know each other etc and I always felt like sex with someone you didn't know, was always exhilarating. Now when I look back upon my life, there were a couple relationships that I remember being completely in love and faithful, but then there where others that I was deceitful and cheated. I am married now and in the first couple years of my relationship/marriage to my wife I had been deceitful. I have NOT had physical contact with another woman since being with my wife but at a couple times when our relationship was rocky, I feel like I was setting up another girl incase we separated, maybe because I liked companionship and feared being abandoned, I don't know. I'd also like to add that I had a PMO addiction ever since I was about 10-11 years old.  And the couple of times I mentioned about setting the girls up I was drawn to their looks more than anything. Gosh I wish I could just punch myself in the face back then for doing that to my amazing wife.I have also been guilty of being physically abusive with my wife in the past. When we would get into arguments names would be called by both parties, then yelling at each other, and before you know it I was repeating my dad's behavior of pushing my mom around to try and win the argument. Now the good news is that I given my life and heart to Jesus Christ this year, and since then broke off my addiction to PMO (Porn, Masturbate, Orgasim) and have really turned my life around. We go to Church quite often and even serve where we are needed. But what I can't move past that is eating me up everyday and causing me to have TONS of stress and anxiety is all the guilt and shame from the things that I've done. The guilt is almost free floating now. It's like I'm afraid to let go of the guilt in fear that I might do all that again. I've prayed and tried but it won't go away!! I was able to tell my grandfather this year that I had stolen a jar of change from him and cashed it in a few years ago because the regret and shame was too much to carry for so long. I'm glad I told him. I know that I do have a conscience because when I have a thought of doing or saying something I shouldn't like watching porn, I would have anxiety before doing it and then would feel very shamed afterwards, most every time going to god in prayer and asking for forgiveness. I have just been worried sick that I'm a sociopath and would Hate myself if I was. But also after looking into BPD I seem to have someone of those traits, because I do have a hard time putting my thumb on my emotions.