Hi!
 I try to get my long story as short as possible. I have been heavily depressed and had anxiety problems for 10 years. And the same time I´ve had severe muscle problems with lower/upper cross syndrome from extensive weightlifting that has shortened several muscles to the extreme. I´ve tried many SSRI, SNRI different antipsychotics during the years. The SSRI/SNRI that has helped raising the mood has also made the muscles cramps heavily. nothing I´ve tried has relaxed the muscle long term. I´ve been to maybe 10+ fysiotherapy training, massage, acupucture etc etc..
 Before x-mas last year I got to try Lamictal. It was really the best medicine I´ve ever had. First time in 10 years I felt calm, both in muscles and the head. The posture havn´t been that relaxed and good during these years. 
But unfortunately I got a reaction when shortly after I´d reached 150mg. First I noticed a burning feeling on the skin on different areas followed by a heavy flu, fever etc, then a rash was visible.. The doctor wanted me to quit the medicine immediately because I had a hypersensitive drug reaction. When I look at pictures on the web of rash from hypersensitive reaction it looks just like the one I had.
 My current doctor says after the massive weightlifting and shortened muscles, my system can´t separate being happy and stress, that´s why the SSRI/SNRI gives a stresses me up and starts the muscle cramps. However, after discontinued Lamictal, I was prescribed Depakote/Valproat, but didn´t gave me anything near Lamictal in terms of relaxing me. Last Monday I got to try Lamictal again, with the goal of reaching 100mg and stay there. But after 1-2 days I got a little burning feeling again, but no flu or rash yet. It´s so sad because I´ve feel more myself with this medicine than any other medication. Even that I´ve taken 25mg now I´m more relaxed in body and mind. The doctor thinks I should quit it again. But I was thinking if should try a few days more and see how it turns out. Is it really dangerous you think? Can it pass and my body gets used to the medicine if I take it slowly?
 Since last summer I´ve been really suicidal and thinks Lamictal is the only hope I got, since nothing has ever worked out from maybe 15+ medicines.