So for years now, ever since high school started (I am 19 and in my first year at university), I have been extremely anxious, especially concerning women (and more recently my health).  I have always been too afraid to speak to attractive girls, too afraid to make any moves.  Obviously, this has lead to me not having much experience, except when a few girls were willing to take the more active role in the relationship.  Today, I find myself more and more aware of my silly fears, and I am doing my best to get over them - but it isn't working.  Today, for example, my current romantic interest was sick and couldn't go to class, so I wrote her a text message wishing her well, joking that she ought to remember to eat (she has some disorder that stops her from feeling hungry), and offering to get her anything she needed so that she didn't need to go outside and risk worsening her cold.  Her answer was entirely neutral ("thanks but I have everything I need, see you thursday" kind of thing), but I have been obsessing for the past hour about how I must have gone too far, how I must have sounded like a creep and how she will not want to speak to me anymore.
 And I can't stand it!!  I KNOW it's all pointless, meaningless fear.  I KNOW it's a tiny, insignificant thing.  I KNOW that there is nothing that indicates I did anything wrong.  I KNOW there is no use in being worried about it; but no matter what I know, I feel like the world is collapsing, like this is just yet another entry in a long list of failures, I'm blushing and trembling and sweating, I can't concentrate, and I am already imagining all the various ways I will be shot down and will crawl away into my bed and cry.  I despise myself for this; I hate myself for not being able to just calm down, I hate myself for being such a coward, I hate myself for ruining my own whole life up to today, I hate myself for being unable to maintain basic or intimate relationships with people, I hate myself for worrying about petty little incidents.  I hate myself for being such an utter failure when it seems it would be so easy just to STOP.  If I could beat the crap out of myself, I would do it until I couldn't stand anymore.  I would scream at myself if it weren't for the fact that my roommate would probably call the psychiatric ward if I did.  I hate myself so much, I'm so angry with myself, that I can barely even taste the fear anymore - but it's still there, like an aftertaste.
 I don't even know why I'm posting this.  I feel like nobody can help me; I want to just find a wide open field where I can scream and yell and smash myself to bits until I'm too tired to stay awake, and not risk anybody bothering me and coming to try to help me.  I guess I just want to know if anybody else knows the feeling, and if anybody has a clue what to do, besides the obvious ("calm down," "take it easy," yadda yadda yadda).