ive been thinking in my head lately , i think its due to my stress of school and family members pushing me to do so well. im the only hope in my family, that still has the chance to do well in school, pass get a good job and ect. i understand why and what my problem is i just cant stop my own voice in my head. sorry if this is a bit confusing to the readers im writing this straight off my stressful mind.
 i have so many thoughts runing threw my head, i found other forums on this website with people who can relate to me,
its all just a bunch of mixed feelings due to stress of school, family, friends and how im am socially, how i grew up, to the things ive done in my past, the thinks ive said and the sad moments ive had and confusion on what i need to do and, what i need to say when im trying to explain things.
 in my head there so many things i want to get off my chest and just explain it but theres so many thoughts that it makes me how i would say it "OverLoad" my whole body heats up and i get mad and confused trying to think of an answer to my problems that i face in my life,like im doing now.
 i cant remember the last time i was normal.
my mind right now is goind crazyin trying to write this.
 aghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh idk if any one could relate i just  need help to explain myself one on one to a person
 i also believe im stress because im always stuck in my house
i live far away from all my friends  and i cant do much to go out and do the thinks i want to do
 .... its all very very confusing
i even had thoughts that i need medication or something
 i dont really have no one to open up to in my life so i had to come here and seek help
if any one thinks they can help me please contact me im going insane
 im just a young teen. whos a heavy thinker who  needs help
im DEEPly confused
 but dispite it all ill always look on the bright side of my life and
i know all my sorrow is all in my head and in reality i have no problems, my mind is just eating away at my self esteem
 my only method i found that helps is music, music that i could relate to music that gives me advise
 ive Bravely wrote my thoughts and i cant write any more,
for some reason i comeout with better stuff to say in my mind but when i put in words it never comes out write
Some one help :/