Any suggestions will be helpful. Been married for 3 years. Male. 30 plus yrs old. One adorably beautiful son whom i love so much. he is turning 1 next April. he is my life. I was gainfully employed as a regional manager with this company until November last year. it was a senior level. at my age, I was the youngest at that position. i was one of the favorites. Been with the company for 5 years almost until i had to quit so that i can help her with our son, with her two clinics (which i funded), to start our dreams of business and to focus on her needs. I would do the household chores before i leave for work (even when i was still employed): clean the house, do the groceries, cook, attend to the laundry and help the cleaning ladies.  she is an OD. she is nearing her 30's. she has very few px yet. am actively helping her out on her clinics: from suppliers to patients to administrative works to sales. I think my wife has bpd. she would be a real mess in the house. unable to do the laundry, unable to clean the house,  nor organize business transactions at the clinics, let alone throw dirty diapers and napkins in the bin. i would be consistently pick up after her, fix the bed after her, ask help with just about everything, from preparing milk to out baby to giving him bath, she is unable to follow through on projects big or small. She would start a project, leave it and then start a new project. she is jealous just about anything and everyone. she would consistently ask me about my opinions and approvals on decisions and yet shoot me out of it. she would shut me out of my family, friends, church mates, church ministry and colleagues. she would get jealous with my nephews and nieces and my brothers and sisters. she would consistently follow up on me and what time i will be home after a few hours that i have been to work. she would be jealous of my colleagues---yes even with male colleagues. she would go crazy if i have one or 2 bottles of beer just to relax even by myself. she would not let me go swimming or go running alone. she would get angry if i watch a movie or just to have alone time by myself. she says i am selfish and that i do not put the interest of m family first. she would check out on my e mail, fb and cellphones to check if i am having an affair. the answer is NO and NONE. She would have "emotional swings" every month. she would blame me for everything. I noticed that this would last for weeks until it reaches peak. Then all hell breaks lose. just like last night. I am into this business i have recently started. i sent an errand boy to pick something up from one of our suppliers. After many hours of unanswered calls from the boy to follow up on the pick-up, I got disappointed. Every time I would get angry, my wife would get angry at me. I said I am not angry at you. i am just disappointed with this person this and that. She would say that I am starting a fight. She would nag and nag and nag endless hours in a day---even up until 2 in the morning! she would complain about everything. Last night, she was threatening to leave me bringing our son with her. After many hours of physically stopping her from leaving the house, i got fed up. She would be hysterical---walking outside of he house with our baby boy in the evening barefooted and nagging loudly. very embarrassing to the neighbors. This has happened so many times i stopped taking counts. I left house just to cool off. when i returned, mother in law was here. to make i worse, mother in law was blaming me for everything happening in the house and to her child. She came from a broken home, her father who used to work abroad would only come home after 5 to 7 years at end. Her brother had drug problem. her brother left his common law wife and son and lived abroad. he came back only after he was deported after  7 years. he never had any serious employment. never seen his son until common wife found another man and got legally married. although his brother and me is the same age, he still lives with his parents.  her mother have not have a job in years. her sisters have been known to philander in high school and college.her family has never been known to handle leadership values. i was raised in an intact family---businessmen and professionals, holding dearly to key values; love God, respect others, to do everything to be respectful within the community and to love the family above all else. Last night was my last thread to sanity. i left the house. i left her there with mother in law, wife and son. I am contemplating annulment of marriage (we have no divorce in our country). I do not know what to do. She would always portray the victim while in fact she has been the one doing all the agresions.I LOVE HER AND OUR SON VERY DEARLY. I AM CERTAINLY AM NOT WILLING TO FETCH WIFE AND SON FROM THE HOUSE OF MY CRAZY IN-LAWS. What do i do? please help.