Need to know I'm not alone and if these feeling will go away!!!  Ok, my story in a nutshell.  I got on 50mg Zoloft generic last May so I was on it for about 10 months because I was slightly depressed w/ major anxiety-(stressors being 2 young hyper kids - whom I love like crazy but my hubby works evenings 5 days out of the week so I'm alone w/ them alot and we have a 6 mnth old puppy, I do not get as much time w/ hubby as i'd like, my job is high stress, very demanding and I have been on Mandatory Overtime for over a year now (about 7 hrs a week) but it was up to 10 extra hrs a week!!!! I felt this hyperventilating feeling all the time- shortness of breath, racing heart, can't catch my breath- I'm assuming they were panic attacks-all day long.  Anyway- I have loved the Zoloft so much, it calmed me down and gave me the patience to think about stuff before overreacting and I've never been happier and the panic attacks went away.  The one and only downside I had about the Zoloft was the weight gain- I gained 25-30 lbs and this alone is making me down on myself again.  I did some research and found Wellbutrin (generic) and mentioned it to to my Dr.  She advised we could try it in regards to avoiding the weight gain and there's really no chance of this w/ wellbutrin.  Well, I was advised to wean myself off the Zoloft in 3 days ...took half my pill for 3 nights and on the 4th morning I started 150mg of Wellbutrin (Bupropion).  This Monday will be 2 weeks that I have been on the Bupropion and it has been a living hell so far.  The panic attacks have came back, I'm very irritable, short fused and cry at the drop of a dime-then immediately feel guilty afterwards.  I am so scared that the bupropion is not going to work- I don't want to gain anymore weight and at the same time- I can't keep putting my family through this miserable version of me- I'm so mean and I don't like myself/my attitude.  I loved myself when I was on Zoloft but the weight gain was a deal breaker for me.  Please please respond if anyone else has gone through this and if there is a light at the end of the tunnel w/ the Bupropion.  I don't know if what I'm experiencing is the "real me" or the side effects of coming of Zoloft or the bupropion not working??? I know its only been 2 weeks but I can't waste my time on this drug if I don't think it will help me.  I've heard so much contradicting information on wellbutrin- my parents were on it and it made them happy/quit smoking, I've heard it doesn't touch anxiety and can cause sudden outrages???, but I've also heard that it has helped some people w/ both depression and minor anxiety.  Help??