I'm not sure this post belongs in this forum. I apologize if it should of gone somewhere else. 
I just need to be heard today. I feel so down about my current situation. I have serious health issues/ many surgeries and an extensive medical and infertility issues. I am a couple days shy of 17 weeks pregnant with a baby boy. GOD willing, this will be my second child (my daughter is 21 months). I knew, for me this would be difficult. I had so many complications with my daughter (we white knuckled it thru the entire pregnancy always thinking we were going to loose her just like our other pregnancies and I'm in the same boat again this time. The only difference is I am suspected to have an auto immune issue like RA which causes me pain on top of pain from multiple back surgeries.  I was told that would get better but it has actually gotten worse.  With the 10+ years it took to have our first child after tons of treatment including IVF.  I wouldn't trade either of my blessings for the world. Lately I've been feeling like I can't get thru this pregnancy. I feel like I've failed myself and family thinking I could do it. I don't consider myself a quitter and I know and would never want to quit on my baby boy but the feeling is just so overwhelming.... That feeling like I can't do this myself. I have no family or friend support systems, my parents and MIL su*ck. I try to be positive and worry about today but my mind has a way of creeping into the future to try and grasp the full picture of what's to come and how I might be able to handle it. My husband works long hours 6 days a week. He still doesn't really understand how much my world has changed once we had our daughter. I can honestly say with all I've been thru in my life her first year was the hardest I had ever endured in the 40 yrs I've been alive. I was exhausted like most new moms but I was also having anxiety attacks when I had to take her in public. I feel they stemmed from issues that happened when I was a teen. Nobody, not even my husband or closest friend seemed to understand. Our daughter was almost a month early & had a stay in the NICU. She couldn't keep formula down and she had to go thru withdrawals because of meds I had to take during pregnancy. Knowing this devastated me. I knew but wasn't fully prepared for that experience. Without a doubt she was/is worth every bit of worry and sleepless nights. I don't want to build resentment up towards this innocent baby I'm carrying. I just don't know how to cope with these overwhelming feelings that I did express to my husband before hand and was maybe stupid enough for not putting my foot down and saying I'm pretty sure I can't do this. I was thrilled to death we were blessed with a beautiful little girl. That was good enough for me. 
 I desperately need help changing the way I'm thinking about things lately.  I have been in tears all morning just feeling like a huge looser.  Any thoughts you can share are appreciated. I feel overwhelmed, stressed and like I'm not taken seriously by hubs.  I hate these feelings. I'm sorry to complain on what's supposed to be a happy cheery day.