Hello caring people, im new to this was site, is the only one  that seemed reliable for correct info. i know interent can be an enemy but im sure after looking thru this site its 100% truth.. And please esxucse the long discription - wana be safe than sorry!!.
 Here goes last month 23rd nov (2 days before my gf period) Me and her (19yrsold) in cinemas, just kissing in our seats.. Now i feel precum produce in my boxers.. I do the right thing by not placing my hand in my boxers or anything.. All i did was touch my jeans from outside to adjust them abit to side where i felt precum just because it uncomftable.. My hands were ofcourse NOT wet because i did not place them inside .. Now literally 5 seconds after i had adjusted myself my gf got hold of that same hand which i used to ajdust my jeans and I FELT dampness on her fingers..not proper wet just Dampnesss.. Now im paranoid if that was precum from my hands to hers/ was it just her body heat/sweatness?!!! surely that cant be because that hand was not placed inside my jeans AT ANY TIIME so i was no where close to touching any precum on my penis/boxers directly dry as i just touched the outide of jeans and couldnt be wet as precum is abosrbed by my boxers and it was just small dropss in diff places .. I want you to Bare in mind before i got  hold of her hand, her hand was just resting betweem her legs if you get me so im assuming it was just defo the heat/sweat that i felt on her fingers because of the cinema sorrounding heat. then i started to get paranoid amd think what if it was ATUALLY precum? (But my fingers wernt wet) and if she touched her vagina OVER HER CLOTHES as she placed her hands betweem her legs again so they near her vagina OVER HER CLOTHES?!! and then cause pregnancy?!!! Also say WORSE WORSE COMES TO WORSE AND IM OVERTHIKINNG THIS - that there was precum on my jeans and she touched that part and then touched herself over her clothes can that cause pregnancy?!?, surely im bein ridicoulous?!!! please tell me i am safe here.... And its just paranoia... 100% ... The good news was  SHE DID GET HER PERIOD the next day (a day earlier than it was due- but lasted her normal 6 days :D )... And i have not seen her since then.. 
 But this month she is now 6 DAYS late!!!! surely shees just having a late month?!!! It CANT be pregnancy right because i have not seen her since then snd she got her period that month after that activity,,, any uself info u can help with me.. Plesse can some1 insure me that this is CANT BE PREGNANCY and that LAST MONTH ACTIVITY IS NOT RELATED?!!. has she just had ovulated later than usual and thst why her period has not arrived yet.. Because she is 31days cycle and she may have just ovulated a weeek later this month? Also she she started a new job around her time of ovulation was due plus this was during collegr.. Maye be thats delayed it? Also she has been 5 days late once before 4/5 monthd back... Sorry for all this i just want a good answer and i hope i recive one...