Hi, I was hoping to talk to some other ladies on here who have maybe experienced the same symptoms as I have for almost a year (in February). I tried asking some relatives and friends but no one else I know have experienced the same as me but looking up the symptoms it does appear it can happen. 
 Since last February my periods have changed. They are longer with fewer time between periods and some days are really heavy. It's more of an annoyance than anything else, really. I'm not really concerned about it but since I never know when I'm going to bleed, it does affect my every day living somewhat. 
 I had a pap smear done a few months ago and all looked fine and normal. The Gyn doctor suggested I get a hysteroscopy done to scrap the uterus and remove a small polyp but they aren't really concerned about cancer and neither am I. I had a pelvic ultrasound done last year when this first started and they did see the smal polyp but nothing else out of the ordinary. 
I'm wondering if it's worth it to get the hysteroscopy done, if it will actually slow down or control the bleeding? Is there anything over the counter I can try? My sister suggested Estrovan but I don't think I have hot flashes yet and not sure that will help with bleeding. 
 Are there any other ladies out there dealing with this, the never ending period? It's so annoying! I was just wondering at what point I can hope this will end. It's been almost a year. I was told most people go through menopause around age 51 and I'm 48, so I hope I'm not dealing with this for a few more years.
Is there anything at all that can help with this? I'd rather not take the BCP's but that's an option after I get the hysteroscopy. The doctor wants to do that first. 
 Anyway, I'd love to hear from some other ladies, maybe some support. I have no one I know or anyone around me who has experienced this. They were apparently the fortunate ones who just had their periods slow down and then stop. Mine's just neverending, with only a few days or up to a week with no bleeding before it starts all over again. Fortunately the cramps and heaviness isn't all the time but it's enough that makes things uncomfortable. And weirdly enough, I passed some small blood clots last month for the first time since I ever started having periods. I don't ever remember doing that before, but I've heard it can happen with periods so I'm not too concerned, just was surprised as it was unusual for me. 
 I'd love to talk with some other ladies who may be going through or who have gone through this as I feel kind of alone here and do have some questions. I would just love some support from others who have been there or who are going through this. 
Thanks so much! I hope to hear from a few other ladies and have a little support and if I can give some support too, I'd be glad to!  :) Thanks and God bless!