Five months ago I was diagnosed with social anxiety and depression. This was around the time my senior year of high school started and I finally decided to deal with my issues head on. I started seeing a therapist and a psychiatrist so that I could fix these problems before leaving for college the following year.
So far, my psychiatrist has had me try 5 different antidepressants and I am in the process of trying another. They were all terrible. The Lexapro made me have a mental breakdown and every possible side-effect imaginable happened. The other four that followed weren't as severe, but they were still painful to take. After the fifth one, Buspar, I took a small break and actually seemed to get better. I was able to eat normally again and even get through a full week of school. However, I think the only reason this happened was because our winter break was approaching and I was probably relieved that I wouldn't have to go to school for a week. 
Now, I am taking an antiepileptic medicine at a very low dose. So far, nothing negative has happened with this medicine, but nothing good has come from it either. I have gotten better with my anxiety, mainly because my school is allowing me to do my work independently and now I'm wondering if I should stop taking antidepressants if this one doesn't work. I've come to the conclusion that I am very sensitive to these types of medicine. I'm also taking Klonopin, which only makes me tired, and I was thinking I should stop taking it. If the antiepileptic medicine causes me pain, or just doesn't work, I think I'm going to stop with the pills. It seems the main problem I was facing that caused my anxiety and depression was going to school. Now that this problem is somewhat solved, I feel like I won't need an antidepressant to help me once school is over. 
I understand that after I graduate I may still face the same problems in college. However, for the time being, I think these medications have caused me more bad than good. The first few months I was taking antidepressants while attending school were horrible. I was constantly missing school and was in agony. I'm asking if I should quit taking antidepressants, at least for the next few months until graduation, or if I should continue testing them no matter what. Also, is it common for people to take this long to find an antidepressant that works?