Is there anyone here that suffers from anxiety and depression with HPPD? It's really indescribable to anyone that doesn't experience it first hand. I'm reaching out here because there isn't much known about it. I've never had a therapist or Psychiatrist that was familiar with it much less up to date. The online support what little there is focussed a lot on the physical and visual issues associated with it but very little on the mental hell. I'm in my 50's and have had this since I was 15. I've had to struggle all these years with iy and it's ruined my life. I never did any drugs after it started at 15 but visual problems  never completely  resolved and the damage to my psyche has been , well, Hell. I tried many jobs when in was in my 20's and 30's, tried to have a social life, tried to go back to school, all while fighting inside and trying to appear normal. More often than not I didn't do a great job either because people did pick up on my strangeness. I don't mean to say that I ever believed in a magic wand but I think after all these years that I might have somehow found some kind of peace and a nich in life because of how hard I struggled and tried to fight through in spite of my symptoms. I have no social life, I had to finally go on disability in my late 30's because I completely fell apart. I have Epstein Barr syndrome which I've fought since I was 20 on top of it. I guess I was susceptible to an immune disorder because of the anxiety and chronic stress. I would try a new job and just break out in sweats from the slightest exertion. The more I fought it the more I would sweat. I could never concentrate to be productive at a job because I was in battle in my mind. So I came off like a big mess and a loser as well. I've been through so much I cantbeven get it all down. My esteem is so low I imagine people here reading this and thinking I don't belong here with everyone else. I have mind terrors which I can't really explain except it's like nightmarish thoughts and feelings while awake. I was hospitalized when I was 15 for almost a year but never got real help, it just drained my parents insurance and went into their own finances eventually. I was hospitalized again in my 20's for several weeks which led nowhere. They did notice that I ran a low grade fever off and on but couldn't figure out why. It wasn't until years later that Epstein Barr was mentioned by an Ears Nose and Throat doctor that might explain my constant fatigue, sweating and flu pike symptoms. I had started having panic attacks when I was 18 and never knew what they were until I was in my mid 20's. This was before people mentioned panic attacks and anxiet disorders much. You just didn't hear about it like today. So I went all those years going to emergency rooms and just always thinking i was dying and I between just thinking it was just me, that no one else had this and everyone else was happy and normal except me. I've written a lot here because I've got to find someone that can somewhat recognize and relate. I'm getting more tired and lonely. I won't go on much longer feeling this alone. I think I've fought the good fight long enough.