my dad will once every couple of weeks get upset over trivial things.  i tried to come up with a pattern so it is more predictable with our family but i haven't been successful.  nonetheless, it has made our family tense and we all feel like we are walking on egg shells since we don't know what will trigger his anger.  every time he gets upset he breaks things (from t.v., table, chairs, etc). and says bad things to my mom (which my mom has grown resentful overtime). 
 they don't believe in counseling and my dad thinks he is always right.  he now starts hiding and lying.  my mom used to tell me when he has his explosions over what and i try to talk to him and he denies it and now he is asking my mom to also lie and not tell me and when she does... he gets upset at her and gets verbally abusive and telling her that she is a trouble maker who wants to ruin her kid's life.  of course, i told my mom she should never feel like that b/c i would never see it that way... if ever... it is my dad who is the troublemaker for not being level-headed.
 now, my dad started catching the squirrels in their backyard b/c he claims they are eating the fruits from their trees.  my mom doesn't like this and feels bad for the squirrel.  we asked my dad to stop doing this and that the fruits are not worth killing the squirrels for AND it gives my mom nightmares.  my dad now told my mom to lie about that too and when i ask him he tells me that he no longer does it but he still does.  i don't know what to do about the lying.
 is this anger with something else?  how can i get him to understand that he needs help? 
 my mom got upset at my dad over the recent incident of the squirrels.  my mom told me the reason why she left but everytime i ask my dad he denies it and gets upset(angry) at my mom and then starts raising his voice at me.  he thinks my mom will eventually come and she will only until he gets help.   when i tell my dad this he gets angry and tells me never to let my mom come back home again.
 ughhhh... i don't know what to do.  i'm getting hives over this.  please help!  anyone?!