2 weeks ago, my son was sleeping next to my boyfriend (I’ve been dating my new boyfriend for a year) My 3 yr old woke up crying ( I was in the other room with my 7 yr old)  When I walked in my bedroom, my bf said he had a bad night mare. In the morning after my bf left to work. I asked my baby why he was crying... He said my boyfriend touched him and it hurt.  He also said why did you leave me mommy?  I was sickened, scared and confused.  When I tried asking more details he became shy and didn’t want to talk anymore.  My bf was molested as a child.  My bf has been so wonderful to my boys and to me. My kids love him. Yesterday I asked my mother to ask my son if anyone has touched his private and she said right away he said, “yes and said my bf name”. I have asked my bf about it and he has denied it. I asked my 7 yr old and he claims he has never touched him. It’s difficult to believe a 3 year old would make something up like that. I asked if his daddy touched him he says no.  Would my ex husband hurt our son or my new boyfriend?  Please help. What do I do?  Since I confronted my bf my relationship has taken a toll. Any advice out there please.
A little history of my ex husband, father of my 3 yr old. I am a 32yr old single parent of two boys, 7 & 3. My divorced was finalized this yr. I was only married for 1 1/2. I left my husband due to his pornography addiction. I met my ex at a church event with my oldest son (my 7 yr old is not his) I never knew my ex had this problem. It was a horrible life experience to live with a sex addiction to internet porn. I was daily waken to his moaning, masturbation, miss treated as his ***** and he constantly scaring my son. His therapist said he needed help. Eventually he would act out on his fantasies and fetishes. When I finally left my ex, I didn’t know I was pregnant. I tried to plead to the courts my ex addiction to pornography and after his evaluation, in the state of California it’s considered a lifestyle & he is to keep his smut away from our son. Unfortunately at 8 months our son began his overnight visits.  My baby is now 3 and can communicate.  The past 3 visits he is crying his little eyes out, begging not to go with him.  The first time he did this I was very positive and said nice things about his father.  (I have never bad mouth my kid’s father. not going to mess my children’s life)