He told me not to take anything unless paracetamol because of the flu that he noticed me. Inderal I could not take more. I followed what he said, but then when the night came I started to feel much the same lack of energy, my lung was locked and I was a little short of breath, I found strange flu leave me like this, after all my fee leukocytes were normal my blood count was normal, was not anemic, always had a good vitamin enriched food. How much worse I ended up taking Scaflam (Detail: Diabetics can not take Scaflam) which is also for fever as well as the lack of energy Paracetamol.Porém much worse and I did not understand why I felt feeling faint again but did not faint. 
The day I went to the ultrasound I got sick in the hospital, my blood pressure rose to 16 by 9 something. I was very tired and my hands and legs were tingling too, this time also hands tingled, and I had not made some effort on the day. That same day a new symptom appeared. The blurred vision. Depending on how far I looked I saw things blurred. They said it was because of high pressure. And the tingling in the hands and legs they said it was because of arritmias.E soon after came an unexplained fever again, this time of 37.6 ° C. They gave me some medicine into the vein with saline to reduce blood pressure and fever. Did two electrocardiograms that day but they said all arrhythmias were sinus justified by the accelerated heartbeat. The cardiologist advised us that it would be of utmost importance to Holter monitoring to detect any arrhythmia that was occurring at a time that they were not doing the electrocardiogram. So I did. He also asked for some tests, including a 24h urine, and a blood test that I will do to detect vanillylmandelic acid, if I have pheochromocytoma. When I returned to school this week, my friends noticed a big difference in my weight, they said I was too skinny. And often I feel this lack of power that gets worse when I eat very sweet. And my vision blurring walks as if he had smoke in any environment that will, this symptom comes and goes. A long time also makes it feel a ringing in the ear when I'm in a quiet environment, like I was the flu but I'm doing this one months, before the flu and feeling still feel the same because of the flu has healed. Today felt heart palpitations again constant after doing a bit more effort than normal. I started researching about type of diabetes and found that most of my symptoms hit with Diabetes, and no doctor so far thought of asking examining glycosylated hemoglobin, or others who can attest to the diagnosis of diabetes. As yet no one has asked this exam I can only think it is diabetes, but maybe I have mounted a hasty diagnosis according to my symptoms. Maybe it's not diabetes, have to ask my guide with a doctor to get tested. I remember having my glucose measured on ultrasound of the abdomen in the hospital, and I was 8h of fasting and measured my blood sugar that was nothing less than 116 As usual fasting is between 70 and 99 Last night 45min after having eaten measure my blood sugar at a pharmacy and gave 106, the pharmacist said that I had just eaten blood glucose was within normal limits, but this little machine is for those already diagnosed with diabetes to control the level of insulin, why do you need to diagnose the blood test for it fast, because there are days that high glucose does not. After a few minutes we went to the hospital again and measure gave 85 So not understand which machine was right but whatever. At the hospital yet decided a sample of blood to see glucose test gave 101 Then the doctor at the hospital said that at that moment I was fine, but that diabetes is not ruled out but would need to seek an endocrinologist. During these days I'm regulating the amount of candy I'm already not as bad as before. But I'm still not 100%. And feel arrhythmias. I wish a doctor could explain me this, give me a light so we can get the right diagnosis. If you need any extra information I will provide smoothly.