I'm a fourteen years old girl and for the past few months I've noticed some changes in my mood and behavior. I used to be a happy kid. I never felt unhappy or bad about myself about myself in any way. A few months ago though that started to change. First it was a little, but now it's getting more and more. I feel extremely low very frequently, I don't like myself at all, and my future seems hopeless. Some days I just want to lay in bed all day and listen to music. Also physically I've noticed changes. I used to eat a lot. I have a healthy weight but I always ate like a bear and was always hungry, but I've lost my appetite. I eat less(the only reason I still eat three meals a day is because people will think things when I don't, but I could easily skip a meal and not be hungry if it were different) and I have a hard time falling asleep. I've taken several depression tests on internet and they suggest I have moderate to severe depression. I have suicidal thought sometimes and I'd lie if I'd say I've never self harmed.
 There's one weird thing though. I don't always feel this bad. When I'm with friends for instance I feel genuinely happy most of the time. I'm not sure if that is just because I'm very good at hiding feelings(I lied to myself about how I felt for 2 years on end) and I'm making myself forget my sorrows for a few hours, or if I actually feel happy. I also feel pretty good, even when I'm on myself, from time to time. My mood can swing from suicidal to so happy I want to puke rainbows in a matter of minutes and to be honest, those mood swings scare the crap out of me.
They make me feel insecure about whether there's something actually wrong with me. I'm scared that I'm just overreacting and exaggerating everything while there's really nothing wrong with me, or that people won't take me seriously when I tell them about this. I know something's not quite right in my head, but I don't know what and it drives me crazy. I'm scared to tell people as I don't want to hurt or worry them, but I know getting help is the only way to get me out of this mindset and feel better again. One moment I think I should tell someone and the next second I feel like I can do everything on my own and there's no need to tell anyone.
 Does anyone have advice about what I should do or what is wrong with me?
 I'm sorry by the way if this question doesn't make sense at all or it's hard to read, English isn't my first language and I'm still learning.