Hi I am almost 27 I am married with 4 kids aged 7,5 and twins 16mths. I was diagnosed at 23 with ADHD, depressive mood disorder,anxiety and ocd. My mum took me to numerous doctors and pyschiatrsts which obviously were of no help. So my mum struggled with me on her own my Dad was there but like most Dads he wouldn't have it he didn't think anything was wrong. So when my Mum and I finally got the answers we were looking for we were relieved. My Mum thought it was her I was a nightmare I can't believe she still loves me. 
Anyway everything was good up until I fell pregnant with the twins in August of 2006. After their birth in April2007 I started taking dexamphetamine for my ADHD and continued with zoloft fot the depression. But the meds weren't working my moods became more unstable more than before i couldn't concentrate on simple tasks and my behaviours were really odd. This year I lost my aunty and cousin and I had a complete breakdown in june I became addicted to drugs which I am clean at the moment. I started taking Lithium on top of my Effexor and we stopped taking the dexies until we knew how the Lithium was working. I got really sick and thought oit was the Lithium butr it wasn't i had a couple of virus's. I read a little bit about borderline personality disorder and i feel as if that is my actual problem. I had brain scans in jan this year which confirmed the clinical diagnosis of adhd depressive mood disorder anxiety and ocd. Can you have those aswell as bpd? What medications are used to treat bpd is Lithium one of them? I just want to feel "normal" I am so tired of being good one week then the next week doing stupid things and then being suicidal the next. I have always been unstable with my moods but since the birth of my twins I feel as if I am going to completely lose the plot. Can anyone offer some advice or any experiences they have had. I will be seeing my pyschiatrist on Monday but would love some help before then. Please if you know how i am feeling or can relate to this I would love to hear from you. Thank you.