Last night my rocky relationship with my significant other officially ended.  After 5 years.  
 He's always had a thing for Internet and gaming.  I've always known and been semi okay with some things,but not others. One of those things is talking to other women that he considers gamers too.  
 Last year one girl in particular caught his attention and he has spent countless hours talking to her.  We have argued over it for about 6 months when it got to the point that he would sneak out of bed in the morning just to message her good morning.  
 Ironically she has no idea who the real him is.  She thinks he's someone else he created online.  
 Because of this he thought it was okay.  
Together we have a combined household.  Mine and his children.  
 He is much older than me so his children are older and very aware if what's been going on.  When we have argued he has yelled at me loud enough for them to hear and he had shown about it openly to his oldest.  
 I am being accused of turning or children against him because she recently told him that she thinks he's out of line talking about me when he's having an online tryst.  
 Anyway.  Perhaps a long overdue ending but it breaks my heart that last week he was telling me how much he loves me and last night I was a manipulative ***** who he wanted or if his face because I took everything when I made him end his tryst. Or what he called his game.  
 Because I primarily take care of the kids I work part time.  The job had amazing growth potential and I'm working hard for it,  but not there yet.   
 I'm not financially stable enough to pay all the bills alone and he had already said he will be leaving his kids with me when he goes.   I'm grateful for that.  But scared. 
 I have no family here and new to my area so no friends.  
 What can I do?   How am I going to take care if my family when he was the bread winner? I'm heartbroken,  but the concern for my kids is far greater.  How can I tell them that he is leaving them?   His youngest is going to be devastated.