I am suffering from severe depression and it's gone from bad to worse. I am a 56 year old woman who have raised 4 children. When I was a child I was molested by my adoptive father and he stopped when I was 12. We lived in a very closed off valley and no one ever talked about such things. I grew up and married a wonderful man and had two girls and two sons. My mother and I had always had a good relationship and I still love her to this day. When I got married and became pregnant and wanted to share my children with her and came home to live just down the road with my family and though I kept a watchful eye out for any interest my adoptive father might show toward my daughter, I couldn't hardly believe he would hurt my beautiful child. I believed the only reason he hurt me was because I was an orphan, unwanted, came from a welfare home and it was OK to do whatever. He hadn't done anything for years and I thought he just sought after me and it was over. I had the rest of my family and warned my daughters very young to tell me if anyone tried to touch them. They did!!! It ruined me. I wound up in a mental hosp and of course eagerly turned it over to the police and the prosecuting attn wouldn't prosecute him because (I believe) they were both in the same church leadership callings. The cop who interviewed him called me off the record and asked me why I wasn't pressing charges and I told him the PA wouldn't and told me to just keep my children away from him, he was an old man and he refused to prosecute. The cop said (off the record) lay a civil suit on him then so people know he's a prebatrator and I did. We left that church because when it got out the kids were persecuted, I couldn't walk into a store without being stared at and shunned. I kept that law suit on him till the day he died. He immediently got heart trouble (gee I wonder why?) and court was put off. But the damage it did to the kids were awful and the girls took it worse. I had no idea it would turn out so bad. I felt so bad for bringing them back to a bad situation, I allowed them to use that to get whatever they wanted from me not to mention our whole family went out of control for years over the pain. We moved out of state and began the recovery. My boys are happy and fine, I did forgive my mother because she also was in a trap, no one to talk to and scared to death, also not knowing the full extent of what her husband was doing behind her back but my daughters reject me for forgiving her and hold so much against me. My husband and other say I need to stop trying with them that the problem is now manupulation, (we have given them 1000s of dollars, they have done whatever they wanted from early teens). I am so depressed because of how things are that I realize my whole self esteem is gone. There are times I want to die. I just lost my twin brother (only sibling) who went through so much too and if it wasn't for my husband and sons I'd die. I feel I failed, I lost two people (daughters) who mean everything to me. They say horrible things to me. Theres so much to it but my husband and sons just say let them go, they're pricks now. But how can a mother just let go? There s also 2 grand babies involved. There has been times when I thought we had recovered but I walk on eggs around them like if I do anything wrong, I'm not worth keeping around and it would be easy to just dump me. Well this last time I just talked about my childhood and the good things I remembered and my daughter told me she never wanted to hear about my childhood at all or any of those people and hasn't had anything to do with me for months. Not everyone was guilty, just one man and he's dead. If I throw it all away I have no childhood and there was good things but I slipped and just said one short thing and it's over. What do I do? Whos fault is this? I have done everything I can think of...nothing heals the past and ends it. Help me. Old Regret