When I would talk to my mum or girlfriends about our personal situations or arguments he would get pissed off saying how can I face them again with them knowing… or they’re jus telling you to leave because they’re jealous or insecure themselves. And that they weren’t good friends and that I shouldn’t discuss anything with them from now on. He didn’t actually say don’t discuss this anymore with them but almost inclinated if I did the relationship would be in jeopardy.
We met in the April, eventually on New Years Eve I had had enough of the continual arguments and doubts in my own mind of ' did he, didn't he cheat on me'. 
It came to a head that New Year and he finally admitted; he'd met a woman on one of the dating sites a couple of times and slept with her. But again his own way of admission does not include a simple yes or no, but an around the way inclination of a yes. Which frustrates me on a maximum as I never get a clear answer and in my head still leaves me confused? It would be nice to get a clear answer from him.
Another of his traits is not being remorseful. He finds it extremely hard to admit he's wrong or apologise. After that New year I decided he was ashamed of what he did and felt he would not do it anymore... which I’m pretty sure to this day he hasn't, maybe the odd flirt or telephone call only. But it still plays on my mind and I do have trust issues with him now. 
We continually argue on a weekly basis, over silly things really but they then don’t become the argument, the way each of us handles the argument then becomes the problem and he blames my reaction and I blame his. I get upset as I feel he can be very short and rude within his statements, and I get everything off my chest in one foul swoop let him know he has upset me and then expect an apology back from him then we kiss and make up. It then seems to be dragged out over a couple of days, in this time he is very desolate, despondent and almost sombre towards me, and it always ends up with me apologising even though it was me who was upset in the first place, normally due to insensitiveness. 
I am extremely emotional and think with my heart, he on the other hand thinks logically with his head. He tells me to go back to the beginning of the argument, get the facts, the causes, the explanations; both sides of the story then discuss it. But I go with my feelings and if I’m feeling upset bout something I blurt it out and tell him. 
He also feels that one argument should have a line drawn under it and never be discussed again. And never seems to understand that all these past actions of his still play in my mind and have occurrences to some present arguments.
I am becoming so frustrated with the little arguments and don’t know what to do, I do love him and also the children are involved, I have now also moved my son up here and he has started school.
He is now continually accusing me of being bipolar and frequently sends me emails and links to such artefacts highlighting what he feels are my traits. 
He also asked me to seek professional advice about this; I did jus before I moved to London... At which point the psychiatrist exclaimed I was by no means mad... and if I was bipolar I was extremely borderline, me doing a mood tracker and journal would help his final diagnosis. He also stated that moving to London would be one of the best things for me as this chap obviously was offering myself and my son stability and that is what I needed especially with my family being so unsupportive and not understanding.
I know I have issues and I know I could possibly be suffering with bipolar but I feel it is not only me I feel he plays a part in my emotions on a day to day basis in the way he is sometimes. He is generally very Jekyll and Hyde on a daily basis. 
We are starting to get settled but nothing has changed and I feel now as though he just sees me as a person with bi polar enabling to rid him of any wrong doing because its always me that flies off the handle, its always me that causes the arguments, its always me that’s miserable, its always me that’s insecure and everything is in my head.. Is it ... is this part of bipolar am I this over raging self cantered memory losing emotional wreck? 
I feel sometimes I am but I also feel he puts some of it on me?? 
I am now here with no friends support or help… I need to get out but am still doubtful as to whether it is me and I am accusing him not knowing I am mentally unstable.
We have decided today after yet another argument of him looking at photos of an ex and going thru my computer that it is over… now I am loss of what to do.
 If anyone has taken the time to read this agonisingly long post I would like to thank you for your time!