Hi, I feel sleepy only when I try to read my School work. If I read something else online or do something else then
I don't feel sleepy at all. This has been ongoing for several weeks now. I really need help as it is affecting my studies.
 I have tried countless tips but none have helped :(. What I've tried include: Sleeping for 9 hours, fixing my body clock 
by sleeping and waking up at the same time for 4 days, walking for 30 minutes straight, doing work in an uncomfortable
place, listening to music while studying etc. but none have helped :(. 
 I do eat unhealthy like regularly although I think I'm fit and healthy. Also I do think that eating unhealthy is a factor but I think
it's not a major factor and that there is a more major one that I'm unsure off since before I used to eat unhealthy regularly too
and this did not occur. 
 I can't do exercise because of current conditions although I can just walk as an option. Also, I cannot eat healthy all the time.
 I think exercise could be a factor since I'm mainly at home and never go outside although I think i'm fit and healthy so yeah.
 I don't think it's boredom since I actually like the course I'm studying and before it didn't happen when I was studying it.
 I do think it might be stress after reading from an article which mentioned that if your stressed then whatever you brain
finds stressful, it will avoid by making you feel sleeping as an example. I have been stressed for months or more although
I'm not really sure if it's the cause of my sleepiness and if i'm actually stressed or not and to what point.
 For example, say it's stress and I've been stressed for 5 months. To fully relieve this stress, do I need to do stuff for 5 months
or does it depend on how stressed I am, the duration and the activity I'm doing to relieve stress?
 I really need helpful advice as this is affecting my studies and also I cannot get help from a local doctor
as my parents are not taking me there since they think that It's just an excuse or something minor.
 Thanks for reading and I appreciate all the help I can get.