Thanks to the economy, many of us that still have jobs, now have crappy ones to various degrees. I was unemployed for 1 year (was stressful), now employed for 1 1/2 yrs at a place that ***** big time (different kind of stress). The managment and owners manage by threats, putting people down, holding you accountable for impossible tasks, they do this to most people there. Mentally abusive, lots of low esteem people there. They're sick, not to mention stupid, as they do not know how to motivate people in a positive way. Employees say they can feel the negative vibe pulling in the parking lot. I'm not kidding. Many people cannot deal with this at all, I'm getting close to that point. I've survived so far, but tired of it.
 As a male, mid 40's, I had good jobs before - so I know the difference. If I didn't make house payments by my self (single), I'd tell this place to pound sand. I normally don't put up with crap from people, so this is a shock since I now have to. Still not many jobs in my male dominated field, kinda stuck.
 I did post this subject last year. I paged through some books on stress. I'm looking for advice on how to mentally separate my brain and emotions from this job. I need to learn to be a robot, but dont know how. I tried visually imagining leaving my job at the office door, still cant get it out of my head. My only mental  escape is weekends off, but know they say feel free to come in on Saturday too. Kiss my a##. 
 This job is having physical health effects on my body to. I take adrenalin stress 'calmers' - natural stuff, helps a little. There are times when I honesty wish all my belonging were in a small motor home so I could just drive off, leave my house and its bills, and live off my savings no bills, just gas and food. I know I'm not alone thinking this way.
 So I'm looking for new advice on how to cope. All the 'feel good' books point to finding the cause and are not very realistic, that does me no good. 
 ***How do I go into 'robot' mode, possibly for an extended time? *** 
 The CEO's and leaders of this country let to many jobs go to other countries which makes less need for all jobs . Seriously - shame on them for letting it happen.