I grew up in a very strict household had no bond with my father is was very abusive in every way but sexually but he always creeped me out. My mother watched the abuse happened and stands by what he did to this day. 
 I have severe anger inside towards people but I have really tried to get past all of what happened to me.
 I also had many abusive as well as sexually abusive relationships.
 People seem to want to control me all the time and conform to who they are and their values. 
 Well I have been on Cymbalta for a while as well as seeing a pyschotherapist and was diagnosed with GAD, OCD, PTSD and depression. I also live with multiple Chronic illnesses which I have battled completely alone since I was 10 yrs old
 There are times were I try so hard to feel happy inside I really do because I want to feel happy. I just feel like I have never felt what happy is. When I get at my lowest I have suicidal thoughts but would never act on them. I always think about why are we here what is the purpose of this all and why are there people out there that arent going through what I am. Why do I feel like this am I crazy? Well that is always what I am thinking.
 I don't like to be touched, I don't like intimacy, I hate someone in my space, I have severe sensitivity to touch, smell, sound, taste etc, 
 I have no idea what triggers the depression all of the sudden it overwhelms me, I get really tired and don't want to do anything and I am almost unconsolable. I make people feel that they are not good enough and that I would rather be alone then to explain what is wrong and to be made feel like a crazy person, I get into such a dark state I think of death like if it would happen I would be okay with that. If my husband left me today I would have no emotion and we were just married and he is an amazing patient man but he doesn't get mental illness or abuse.  I start to feel guilty after because my husband doesn't deserve to be talked to like that and he does everything for me then I try my hardest to snap out of it. 
 I will be fine for around 2 months then again. However in the summer I am usually good that is why I think it hits me so much harder and most likely have SAD. 
 Am I bipolar? Do I have some detachment disorder, personality disorder?
 I really dont feel like I have the love emotion or I block it so well that I wont allow to let anyone in ever and if I do and I start to feel vulnerable I almost go into fight flight mode. Could this be it? Could it be from years of abuse and not being able to trust people and form attachments?