It is never a child's responsibility or fault when they don't go to an adult. They are chidren who are being manipulated in the worst way by sexual predators. Making them feel, in any way that somehow this was their fault is very damaging to the person who finally has the guts to come forward. It is up to ADULTS to be the first line of defense against sexual predators. We must all learn the warning signs of a possible predator and what you should do to protect the child. You don't just assume the person is a predator and tell everyone but you can quietly look for certain behaviors in adults and older kids that may be signs. For instance, a woman came up to me after a class and told me her son took private piano lessons. She said the piano teacher didn't feel comfortable about having the parent their while he taught, so she would wait in the car. Now, there should be nothing wrong with you going in unannounced to say, use the restroom. Right? But she didn't. Then the man began picking her son up for lessons because it would be on his way home anyway. You tell him don't worry, I'll take him and the teacher insists he will do it and bring the boy home later. That's yellow light behavior. Insist on taking your child and continue popping in for bathroom breaks. If your son seems to feel uncomfortable, get him another instructor. If the teacher acts pissed of that you won't let him pick your son up then, by all means, stop taking your son to him immediately and try speaking with other parents that he gives lessons to to find out if this is something he normally does with other students and how the other parents feel about this, if he does. Until parents start talking to their children about secret touching at a young age and leltting them know that no matter what, they shoud come tell you and you will that person gets help. Remember, this may be someone the child loves (in 94% of the casses it is someone the child knows and cares about, including family members). There are many different techniques pedophiles us to keep children quiet. It's up to the ADULTS to make sure that child knows that if they come to you, you will always believe them and help them. Otherwise, the predator has outsmarted you as well as the child.