My wife always tells me she is just being passionate, but it always seems like she is raising her voice to me and if I say that I feel like she is yelling at me she just gets even more upset.  She gets really angry and will make accusations towards me regarding various miscellaneous subjects, but if I attempt to defend myself I am told that I am "using ammunition from the past against her."  I not too long ago got a dog as a companion to spend time with, play with, etc...  The dog has a habit of jumping and I am trying to break her habit of it.  The problem comes in when my wife is around and she gets upset about the dog.  She yells at her, calls her stupid, and sometimes even kicks at the dog.  I know the dog can be irritating and it doesn't help she hates the dogs.  The problem is that I love my dog and for all of the special ed things she does, I still love her.  She is after all a dog.  A life form that my wife loathes.  Although she hates my dog, she does love cats.  All nine of them.  We started off with two...  Then things happened and we ended up with 8.  Moved and lost one.  So then, because I know how bad she wants a kitten I agree to a certain cat and left it at that.  Well, even though she "left it up to me" I was later guilted into bringing a sibling of said kitten home.  I have nothing against cats (my body does though as my allergies drive me insane) and I love each of them for their own personality.  If I could though, I would definitely downsize because my allergies are making it to where I wake up every day with my sinuses plugged up and a headache.  Lately, I have been getting worse as sneezing and coughing have been added to the mix.  The point of all of that is to say that when I mentioned the possibility of re-homing any of the cats, she gets emotional and gets mad at me for even uttering the words.  I leave it alone and say nothing figuring well, at least I finally have my dog that I have been wanting.  Therein lies the problem...  Even though she is surrounded by all of our cats, I can't have a day of peace with the dog around.  She gets mad at dog, takes it out on me.  I try and calm her down, and no luck.  She just gets even more angry.  If I even consider asking why she is being mean to me it gets worse.  She says that it is my own fault because I brought the dog into the house and she doesn't like the dog.  I get that I am not a perfect dog parent, but yelling at me and being angry at me because of the dog?  I try to point out that I respect her and her needs and that she loves cats and so we have cats, but I don't understand why I am not afforded the same respect when it comes to my dog.  
     Another example:  She brought home a new fabric scent bead thing and asked me to smell it...  My poor nose didn't appreciate the overabundance of fragrance and so I set it down.  I was curious about what the current scent was that we were using and all of a sudden I got a snide "oh look, I screwed up again."  I didn't make any faces or say anything, and yet she immediately was aggravated.  
     I feel like she has no respect for me.  She was angry at the dog when we took the trash out and decided to yell at the dog as loud as she could and completely embarrassed me.  She had barely set foot out of the truck and basically threatened the dog if she came near her.  The dog doesn't understand so she just looks at her.  Fast forward to now...  I don't even want to leave the room I am in because I don't want to see the scowl that she wears more often than not anymore.  She will be very sarcastic to me if I try and ask a question or just flat out ignore me.  If I really need an answer and have to repeat the question I get yelled at for having the audacity to talk to her when she doesn't want to talk to me.  There have been times that she has thrown things at me and the walls, and once it even progressed beyond that.  She has had some personal issues in her past that she uses as explanations to what she does sometimes, and that she knows she has an anger problem.  I have asked her to see someone (counselor, therapist, etc) and she refuses.  Other times she acts genuinely sorry about it until I ask her that and she will blow up.  I am not one to stay angry about things and feel like if I say my piece then I am done and that is that.  Not her.  She will drag it out for hours sometimes.  
     One more thing...  Venting.  She says she needs someone to vent to and I am like ok well I am here.  The problem is that she doesn't know the difference between venting and taking something out on someone.  Example:  She is playing a game and something happens that makes her angry.  She is now angry, and that is that.  If I happen into the room or something, she starts blowing up about how she hates it and she is ready to quit and is over it...  Meanwhile, I am usually just wandering through and have no idea about what is going on and if I ask her anything I get very snarky remarks.  She doesn't know how to be mad at whatever it is she is upset with without directing said anger at me.  
     So, either way, I know I have put A LOT of information in this post and probably not the best information, but I would appreciate any help on how to try and communicate with her.  God knows if I try to defend/explain something I have done then I am only using it as ammunition against her :(