i've never seen a psychiatrist before though i've always felt i should...since i was 16 as i can remember i started having these violent tempers that are uncontrollable. its so hard to explain to ppl sometimes because when i try they think im just making an excuse for my violent behavior. i finally have an appt with a psych on july 21st and im anxious to get help. in the meantime i would appreciate ANY feedback whatsoever.  here are my symptoms of when i become angry: 
 before (during) my anger: i feel superior, i become controlling, i feel that if things went my way (or as planned) then this wouldnt have happened, i blame him (my boyfriend), violent (hitting, kicking, biting, using objects), destroy property, sometimes i plan my attack, sometimes its spur of the moment, i think im right, irrational, cursing, screaming, dont care or even think about the consequences, unladylike, sometimes i feel offended or lied to or like im being played (taking advantage of in some way), sometimes its misdirected (meaning he could say something that i take as offensive and act on it and it will turn out that it wasnt meant to be offensive at all), only think negative thoughts and they pop into my head randomly, i think he's out to hurt me (emotionally), i only attack the men im in a relationship with at the time...never a family member or friends and i dont understand why, i dont take responsability. 
 after my anger or rage is gone: regretful, remorseful, ashamed of myself, hating myself, disappointed in myself, genuinely sorry, cant forgive myself, worthless, unworthy of him, hopeless (like im going to be this way forever), rational (logical) willing to reason or compromise. 
 in general i feel depressed because im not doing anything with my life, im not sure if thats the reason. but i dont work or go to school and i really dont have any friends, i dont get along with family, except my mom but that relationship is off and on. my life is so boring and dull. i have so many bills and so many financial concerns. the there's days when these things dont bother me and i'll feel happy for something i think anyone else would find silly. like when we went to coney island and had such a good day. no arguing or anger. i was so happy beyond belief. its weird cause even my silly little orange bracelet made me happy, i dont like to admit that to ppl cause then they think im weird. 
 thats pretty much the jist of it. if anyone has any insight at all as to what im going through or what it is im experiencing please share with me. i know i need help and i need someone to talk to. all my life i've felt like i wanted to talk but no one would listen and sometimes i would be angry and i would try to express it without violence but no one paid me any attention. im the youngest of 7 and to some ppl they would think that would make me spoiled but it just made me feel isolated and neglected...