I am married to a man who has two thirty-something children.  Unbeknownst to me, the son was very troubled and has been an active alcoholic, has not been able to hold a job, and won't get psychological help.  Luckily, he doesn't live with us but has run the doorbell in the middle of the night and drunk dialed--until we moved and started taking the phone off the hook.  He's a troubled young man and I have tried to let my husband deal with it. The problem is that I cannot even have an opinion or offer suggestions without my husband becoming very defensive.  Meanwhile, his son calls every day--either looking for money or a shoulder to cry on.  I do think that the son is, in part, angry that his father is married and not (in the son's mind) focusing on him.  
 Meanwhile, my husband's daughter is away at college (working on a Ph.D.) and has tried to get to her father through me.  My husband doesn't make much effort to call her and she has acted out by sending me false information about what is going on with her brother.  It got to a point at which I told the daughter that we cannot communicate like that and I told her that I sensed that she was angry about something.  She admittedly said that she's angry at her father and perhaps needs to work on it with a therapist.  
 My husband has continued to tell me that his children are none of my business and will not admit that his children are very angry about the past and even doing things to try to cause trouble in our marriage. Meanwhile, I feel that I have been a bit of a target fir the adult children.  My husband just keeps saying that his son is sick and can't help his addictive behavior.  Some of it is probably true; I think there's a mental illness involved.
 What is distressing is that my husband can't do anything on a Saturday because his son needs him for something.  There's always an emotional or physical crisis (addiction to pain killers, broken nose, etc).  I do resent my husband's son in many ways and don't know if my feelings are justified.
 To what degree are my husband's children any or none of my business in your opinion.  If they do things that affect me or use me to get to their father, I think I have a right to have an opinion and to say "this has got to stop".  Meanwhile, my husband get's angry with me and tells me that I'm crazy and obsessive for worrying about the barbs that come my way.