Okay, so I know I'm going to get judged, but I don't really care what you think of me, just saying. So I am a 13 year old female, and I have the following issues: Melancholic Depression, ICD, ADD, and I have an Anxiety Disorder. If you don't know what any of those are, please feel free to educate yourself before you go "Wow are you a mental patient". I have have been depressed on and off throughout the years, but over the passed two years, it's been at its worst. I won't go into my past, but I will just say that I've had a pretty rough one. I know my Depression and Anxiety have an effect on my appetite, but I have a feeling I might be showing early signs of Anorexia. It started off when I started waking up late for school. As you may know, beauty comes before health in this world, so I just didn't eat breakfast that day. I was super hungry when lunch time came at school, and I actually felt nauseous. So the waking up late habit reoccurred every day. and eventually I just got used to not eating breakfast. I didn't think much of it because many kids don't eat breakfast. About a month ago, I stopped eating lunch. I had no food in the house, and I didn't have any money to pay for lunch at school, so I just didn't eat that day. Once I got home I was pretty hungry. Think about it... no breakfast or lunch? Yeah you'd be hungry too. So I ate some cookies (Since that's basically all we had) and by the 3rd cookie, I felt like throwing up. Over the past month, I've made a new habit. I don't snack, and I don't eat breakfast or lunch. This new 'habit' of mine, concerns me in a way because, I'm able to do this without feeling hungry or having my stomach growl. The only meal of the day that I eat is dinner, and I wouldn't even call it a meal. Today I had a sand which. That's it. As soon as I was finished with that sand which, I was extremely full, and I regretted eating it, and I still do. What scares me even more is that, I am losing weight. A lot. And I am actually pleased with the results I'm getting. I know it's wrong, and I shouldn't be happy about the fact that I can see my ribs, but I am. I am not underweight, nor am I overweight. I am 5"7' and last time I weighed myself I weighed 153, but that was 2 months ago. My jeans are all too big on me, even on my butt, so I can definitely say I've lost more weight. When I do get random urges to eat at random times of the day (very rarely) I tell myself "No, you don't want to get fat." even though, I am not. Could this be early signs of Anorexia?