Hey Ya'll,
 First of all, let me just say thanks to each of you who have posted or responded.  It was/ is so REFRESHING to read that I'm not the only person who is severely disturbed and whose marital relationship is in DEEP turmoil over issues relating to a difficult child, in my case my step son, and a less than attentive father.
 I met my husband about 10 years ago.  We started dating 8 years ago and got married about 2 years ago.  He has a son from a previous marriage who, when my husband and I started dating, was 5 years old.  His son, my step-son, is now 12. 
 From Day 1, my step-son has been a challenge- both to his father and I and to our relationship- he is a defiant "why" and "no" kind of kid- but to a extreme.  It took years for him to even treat me civilly.  It's not all due to his behavior, his biological mother set a HORRID example by talking to him about her dislike for me (which was unfounded, she just wanted someone to be an enemy I guess).  He has told me the following in the past:  
 -She made up songs about me which she and he would sing when they'd pass my former house such as "(insert name) is a dum dum"; 
-told him "she didn't like me", etc.  
- told him I was mean, a bad person, etc.
  These types of things he only opened up and told me after a couple of years when he started to "like" me a bit... but there was always a tinge with it... like he knew it would upset me and wanted to see my reaction to him telling me.
 In the earlier years, his behavior wasn't the focus of my concerns- his anger or disdain for me was.  This is primarily because I left ALL the instruction and instructional parenting up to his father; since the step son seemed to "hate" me (seriously, he hated me), I knew that telling him what to do would only set off an eruption and take away from the matter at hand.  I would always respond by acting like I thought my grandmother would in that situation, showing no anger or emotion, just kindly saying "you're mother's nice", "I don't dislike your mother", etc.  He would often tell me if his mom went on any trips or got a new gadget, etc. - almost as if he wanted to make me jealous.  I would always be uncomfortable at his need to tell me these things the inside but would show happiness outwardly and say "that's wonderful!", etc.
 In recent years, we have bonded much beyond those days but it is more like a relationship where he tolerates me- is nice when he gets what he wants, etc.  I cook well, am always eager to bake things for him and am generally fun, encouraging fun family activities and such- so this is why I think he began to tolerate me. 
 But now, since he's began to finally accept instruction from me (after 7 years!!!!!!) his explosive outburst and irate behavior at being asked to do most anything is truly taking the forefront.  Clean your room?  Explosion- and he's likely to not do it.  When and if he does do it, it's such a poor job that it's almost an insult.  Where' his father at on this? Well, he doesn't even check the room (EVER) to see if he did it.... and doesn't enforce it when he doesn't.
 This is just one tiny example bringing me to my current concern.  My step-son's Dad, my husband, has very POOR parenting skills- I'm no longer in denial of this.  My husband cares, he really does, but I think he fears his sons outbursts and doesn't know HIS ROLE as a father.
 My step son does not regularly, if ever, clean his room.  When asked to take his cleaned and folded clothes upstairs... well, they are still there 4 weeks after I asked him to and asked his father to back me up on this. He gets bad grades? Well... don't say anything about it or he'll FREAK OUT and cry, throw a tantrum that lasts hours, etc. until our focus is off of whatever the original issue was and now onto COMFORTING him.  Sick & need to take your medicine... well, total outburst until his father, my husband, decides it's better if he doesn't.  This INFURIATES me! What example are we setting?
 It's clear he has his father wrapped around his finger.  Just this week, the medicine thing happened and after making the 12 yr old take it one night after an hour of screaming, crying, "i hate you", "i don't like you", "i would rather die"... the next am his father just doesn't bring medicine up.
 All this concerns me because I consistently try to set a regular "tidy up your room at the end of the week", "did you do your homework before beginning to play video games", "have you had a shower today and brushed your teeth"... and "you can't just eat chocolate"... "don't throw a tantrum", etc.... yet i'm only met with an inactive and non-reinforcing Dad.
 This has HORRIBLY affected my relationship with my husband.  Now, it seems ofttimes I feel as if I don't "like" him or my step son.  I avoid being home.  I avoid even trying to give instruction and guidance (even though the father gives none) because I know it'll only not be reinforced by dad or be renegged upon by a father who doesn't want to stand up to the tantrums.
 I'm certain it's time for couples or family counseling, but to be honest- I'm ready to give up.  My husband and I don't see eye to eye on any of this.  He sides with his son nearly every time.  With the medicine he said "well, he shouldn't take a pill that big" even though it was ok'ed by the doc's and the package said it was appropriate for his age.  He also admitted he didn't want to deal with another outburst.  
 I've lost respect for my husband and generally feel uncomfortable around my manipulative, spoiled and bratty step-son.  I feel like nothing is going to change.  Years ago I said to my husband, "if we don't get him in line now, how do you think he'll behave when he's a pre-teen?"  Well, now he's a pre-teen and it's worse than ever.
 My trust for my husbands parenting skills is so lost that I don't even want to have children of mine own with him.  Again, my husband sides with his tantrum-throwing, manipulative 12 year old and even acuses me of of being too harsh.  
 Might I add, the kid does NO chores.  Doesn't help with anything- and acts absolutely blown away if he's asked- and rarely will actually do it.
 WHAT DO I DO? Counseling is the next step, I know... but I feel it'll just be futile.
 I'm tired of feeling like an instructor whose ignored, I'm tired of watching this train wreck... and I just want to finally be happy.
 Any advice?