I met my ex-wife right after her 40th birthday!  I helped her get clean and was strong and had a good life!  I had plenty to offer this new friend and fell head over heels in love with her.  Anyway, there were many problems with her anger and her attitudes, but in spite of unacceptable behavior at times I still could stay emotionally centered.  But after about two years when she started over-reacting to my personal rights for safety things changed.  Her behavior took on meanness and manipulation and deception and out right lying!  We went to counseling and things seem to get better but then an even bigger fallout would happen!  Then as always she would come back and say she was sorry and would do better.  Fast forward we Married in 2009 and her periods stopped and she demanded things rather than requesting things.  The first year of our Marriage was her irrational beliefs about reality and just after our first Wedding Anniversary she said in Church she was so grateful for her husband and 4 days later I told she had to leave because she would not let me even go to the bathroom ao she was banking on the door and as I came out she yelled, " I am going to have some fun",  then charged into me and I pushed her aside and was pretty upset and told her she was not going to act that way in my family's house or talk to me in that tone ever again!  She said she would get help!  Well she changed her mind and made a false police report saying I abused her physically and mentally.  This is what she told the church her family and our small group as well as my sponsors in Celebrate Recovery.  After 4 Months she showed up saying she would be a better wife but it only got worse.  In the interim she purchased her Son's townhouse and broke into mine only for me to find out she hacked the basement door and left all other doors wide open and cleaned me out!  She locked me out of her townhouse where her and my ex where making Christmas presents for the Grandkids and when I asked her to dinner on her birthday she told me that might be an option and proceeded to go with my ex!  Wow, she even had a picture of my ex in her townhouse with her at a party they had gone to.  I did not know she was on medication but she hardly resembled my wife at all!  I only found out because of her slurred speech and finding her pills.  Then she stopped taking them and that was the worst to she her like that!  I still love and care for this woman is there anything that can be done?  Does Menapause medication effect ever prior Drug addicted woman like this?  It is like she started her full blown addiction all over or is there some psychosis going on?  Hope you can give me some helpful resolution on this matter.  Thanks ronnystar