Hi:
 I recently went for an MRI and MRA scan (without contrast) and it came back that I had a lesion on my pineal gland. It said that it "could" be a cyst, but given its size it's recommended that I have it done again with dye. 
 The size of whatever it is is 14 x 12 x 9mm. 
 Is that way bigger than usual? I know they usually find them in females; I'm male. I went for the scan for something totally unrelated. It was one of a bunch of tests my doctor sent me for just to be on the safe side.
 I know people with pineal gland cysts can experience migraines, double vision, and have trouble sleeping. I'm not experiencing any of these symptoms. 
 I'm also curious: how can they determine if something is a cyst or a tumor in or on the brain doing an MRI with dye injected?
 I would be so grateful if someone could offer info/advice!
 I'm going to transcribe exactly what came back on the reports in case there's something else that's significant. I know sometimes people want to know all the details to get a better picture:
 Exam type: MRI BRAIN WITHOUT CONTRAST
 Impression:
 1. No intracranial hemorrhage or infarct.
 2. Pineal gland lesion measuring up to 14 mm, which may be a cyst but, given its size, should be further evaluated by high-resolution contrast-enhanced MRI.
 3. No high-grade stenosis or aneurysm of the major intracranial arteries.
 TECHNIQUE: MR imagine of the brain was performed without the intravenous administration of gadolinium contrast. 3-D time-of-flight MRA of the circle of Willis was obtained without contrast.
 Findings:
 Brain:
 Ventricles and sulci are normal in size and configuration. Prominent sublenticular VR spaces. No cerebral edema. No diffusion evidence of acute infarct. No evidence of parenchymal hemorrhage on gradient echo imagine. No extr-axial collection. No abnormal white matter lesions.
 There is a pineal lesion measuring 14 x 12 x 9 mm (AP x TRV  CC) which is T2 hyperintense and T1 isontense. Further evaluation with high-resolution contrast-enhanced MRI is recommended.
 Cerebellar tonsils are normal in location. Major vessel flow voids are preserved at the skull base. There is a thickening of the diploic space of the skull bones. There is no fluid opacification of the paranasal sinuses or mastoids.
 MRA COW:
 Normal flow related enhancement in the major intracranial arteries. Fetal right posterior communication artery. Co-dominant vertebral arteries. No flow gap is seen to suggest high grade stenosis. No medium or large-sized aneurysm.