My Ex-now was diagnosed w/BPD in the beginning of 2009.  I knew nothing of BPD until i did some research, but I still feel that I'm lost. 
 I read the definition of BPD, and some things make perfect sense while other sypmtoms dont fit him at all.  However, when i started to go through this forum, i see that my Ex does exhibit a lot of the syptoms that are posted here on the forum.  
 On top of being BPD, my Ex is or was a Yeller, which in the beginning of our relationship had a huge negative impact.  I didnt grow up in a home where Yelling was the norm, therefore i felt like i was being emotionally abused, but he would say that it was something normal that people do when they are angry.  I would tell him to stop when he would start then he would get sarcasstic.  So then i would shut down.  I'm guessing that was my defense mechanism.  I walked away a few times, feeling distraught, trying not to take it personal because i knew he had BPD, only to have that anger build up.  Whenever i wanted to talk about my feelings about something, it had to be presented in a certain way so that he could understand me.  I never knew that my phrase "walking on eggshells" was something a lot of people felt until I got to this forum.  Finally, I'm not alone.  However, after so many months of not being heard or understood or acknowledged, I think i stopped trying and i feel horrible about it.  
 It seems what i was in the beginning of the relationship has changed.  I would be rational, and i was sypmathetic because he was going through a divorce.  i was there at his every call.  even though, at times i had to distance myself so as not to be overwhelmed.  But everything has changed.  Like him, I started yelling as well and I HATE that!  and instead of being rational i feel im past the point of being rational and that im tired.  And he started noticing that.  
 He broke up with me yesterday saying that i need to go to a counselor for my anger issues.  The thing is all my anger issues are because of this relationship we had.  Everything that has been built up.  I know why I'm mad.  I'm mad because of the abuse, I'm mad for having someone that isnt willing to understand my issues, or acknowledge them, I'm mad becuase i feel I had to be adult all the time, I'm mad because there was always something going on with him so the relationship was about him.  
 I understood yesterday, the way we perceive everything is completely different and i felt helpless and sad about how everything was handled on my end.  I read a post earlier that said a person with BPD can take something you say and always attach something negative to it.  In my case, everytime i was trying to address an issue or bring up an issue or situation that is what happened, and I was "attacking him".  Which was not the case, i was simply trying to address something that was a problem for me.  
 It seemed that in other areas he was getting better, the yelling went down, but the sarcasm never went away.  And he just seemed to be a in more happy mood latetly so i figured i would be able to approach him about something that had been bothering me.  he stated that I was always mad, that he wasnt enough for me anymore and that i should go talk to someone about my anger issues and that if i dont it was over.  Perhaps i should go talk to somone about how angry I have gotten, but I realized we just werent on the same page and that we would never understand each other.  
 I guess i'm just looking to vent.  Looking at the fact that maybe i should have found some kind of support group or go talk to a counselor with everything that was going on.  
 Has anyone been in my shoes and gone through it succussfully.  Has a relationship with BPD ever worked?  
 I care for him immensley and I feel bad about how this has turned out but I know its not healthy for me.  I know that it wasn't healthy for the both of us.  
 I dont mean to offend, and I'm looking to try and understand.