I started suffering some upper abdominal discomfort along with constipation in August 2012. The constipation lasted about a week but the abdominal discomfort persisted, I wouldn't call it pain more like a pressure or gas feeling but it doesn't affect my appetite or how much food I consume. I visited my GP in the middle of August and he believed it was Gastritis along with IBS (I was diagnosed in my mid 20s with IBS after various tests failed to show anything I am now 33) Towards the end of August 2012 I noticed I was passing stools more frequently and they were mainly loose, greasy and floating (they have been ever since). I revisited my GP who again reassured me was just IBS/Gastritis and not to worry. I then started to awake at night when I was sleeping on either side as the abdominal discomfort increased when lying in this position (this has continued ever since) I can now only sleep laying on my back but with enough pillows to keep me at a 45 degree angle. My concern increased when I was driving home from work one day and as I went around a corner too quickly in my car a sharp pressure pushed against the inside of my left ribcage. Whenever I lay flat or twist my body there is a pressure sensation underneath my left ribcage which is not painful but more like discomfort. At this point I went to see my GP and told him of my increasing concern, he again reassured me but sent for blood tests (Full blood count,Pancreatic amylase/lipase,Liver Function, Kidney function, Bone profile) all came back within normal ranges. I then asked to be referred for a scan but as my bloods were fine he said there was no need and couldn't justify it on the NHS so I paid for a private scan, he wouldn't refer me for CT due to radiation so I had an MRI/MRCP with/without contrast of the abdomen which came back totally clear (this was roughly the last week of August 2012) Due to my anxiety of the situation I paid to see a private Gastrointestinal specialist. After recapping the above with him he decided that I need a endoscopy of my stomach. This was completed late September, my stomach lining was inflamed but was tested for H.Pylori but was negative. The specialist put it down to poor diet and stress. For the next few months I tried to just got on with things but all symptoms remained. Just before Christmas I went to the GP to tell him i was still concerned about my symptoms and that my digestive function had just changed. He reassured me that all my tests were fine but he would test me for Coeliacs disease but again this came back negative. Towards the end of January I noticed that my Urine had become dark yellow for no apparent reason. At this point I googled all my symptoms which has has led to my fear of Pancreatic Cancer. I visited my GP who again reassured me of previous test results along with no risk factors of Pancreatic cancer (My age, I don't smoke/drink and I run between 55miles to 70 miles a week) He run the same blood tests as he did when I visited him in August along with a test for diabetes (Full blood count,Pancreatic amylase/lipase,Liver Function, Kidney function, Bone profile) again all came back within normal ranges. He put my dark urine down to dehydration due to my exercise. Due to my ongoing problems my GP sent me to a  gastroenterology doctor. After going through my symptoms he has ordered a lactose intolerance test for me which Im still waiting on. He again believes its just IBS. I seen the doctor in April but im still awaiting the lactose test. At the beginning of June I had 4 days worth of severe diarrhoea. My food was going straight through me and I was back and fore the toilet all day. I again went to my GP as my anxiety was high, he again run all the same blood tests but again all came back clear. I then asked for another scan which I would pay for (MRI/MRCP with/without contrast of the abdomen) and again the scan has come back completely clear. My GP has tried to tell me there is nowhere else to go with this (I can sort of understand) Ive had 2 MRIs 10 months apart ,3 full sets of blood tests over a year but my symptoms persist. I have recently started having a dull ache right in between my shoulder blades in the middle of my back. Im worried this is all linked, my GP thinks its mechanical and is linked to my running program and posture. 
 To summarise Symptoms Greasy floating stools for a year, Vague upper abdominal pain for a year (hasn't increased in general intensity, maybe the odd fluctuation here or there),  Pressure in left ribcage area for a year particularly when lying down flat or when twisting Increased abdominal discomfort when lying on either side in bed, Dark Urine for 6 months, Vague back pain for 6 weeks.   Relevant info 2 MRIs 10 months apart since onset of symptoms both clear,  3 sets of full blood tests during last 12 months all clear,  Diagnosed with IBS 8 years ago Non smoker or drinker, current weight 13 stone at 6ft 1 No weight loss or energy loss still running 55-70 miles per week although maybe more sleepy towards the end of each day.