Hello,
I am almost 27years old and I have had depression for about the past 4 or 5 years, ranging in intensity and severity. I have also had anxiety dating back as far as I can remember. Every so often I find myself in a bad place; a place filled with crippling anxiety and depression that I can't get out of. I've never fully done my due diligence as far as seeking help, I've always just thought thats how I was, and knew I would eventually get better. 
 I'm there again.
 This time I am taking it seriously and seeking treatment, but most treatments seem to need time to build up and take effect. In the mean time, I feel lost and at times straight up terrified. I have a very stressful job that I know is helping maximize these feelings, but I know its not the underlying cause. I'd just assume quit my job if I knew it would make me feel better, but I know thats not the case and would be an overreaction. But the thing that is really scaring me are the thoughts I've been having:
 What if some ice fell off a building and hit me?
What if a car slid off the road and hit me?
What if this train derailed and I plummeted to the ground?
What if somebody came into my office and shot me in the leg?
 I've never considered myself suicidal, but I don't think these thoughts are far off. I don't want to hurt myself, but it's like I want something bad to happen to me. Is this normal? (I know its not normal - I guess common might be the better way to phrase that)
 I saw my primary care physician yesterday who put me on a new anti-depressant and I start therapy tomorrow, but in the meantime, I feel lost, alone, and afraid - mostly of myself. My job is consuming the majority of my life and the little downtime I have either puts me to sleep or leaves me shaking on the couch with a million "what if's?" running through my head. 
 I guess what I am trying to ask is if this continues, and I really reach my breaking point (and I'm damn close) is there anywhere I can go? The ER doesn't seem like a reasonable place. Do I check myself into a clinic? Should I just ride it out and hope the medicine starts helping in a few days? I've been to ROCK BOTTOM before and I know I'm not there yet, but I do know its the most awful feeling in the world and I want to make sure I am proactive about fixing myself this time before its too late.
 Thanks in advance for the advice -