I am a 25-year old male with borderline personality disorder and I am seeking help.
 I grew up in Jakarta until I was 18 years of age. I studied in the US from August 2005 -May 2012. I have come back to live in Jakarta for good on May 21st 2012. Only a couple of days had passed since I left the US when I wrote this note.
 It might fun to think of the fact that I am living in another country but I am the one who's living the bleak reality here. I have a borderline personality disorder. I am facing reintegration problems to my old culture. I have a phobia with metal and static electricity. I can't work because I have scoliosis and lumbar hernia. I am angry all the time, scared all the time.
 Growing up was very extremely difficult. I was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder in 2010. The person who diagnosed me with borderline personality disorder was a school therapist. I was 23 years old. Prior to that, I had seen 7 therapists. I have met 2 others after I was diagnosed but all ended in similar fashion: I left in a huff after several meetings. You would easily say that I needed to stick around longer but it is hard for me.
 I was angry all the time because I have never really gotten the cure. I was angry because so much of my life was wasted. I am angry because it took that long for me to get a label. I feel like the therapists were holding out on me. I feel like the therapists were keeping me around so that I would keep paying money but I was a college student. I feel cheated. 
 I am feeling extremely bad today (05/23). I am angry because I hate the culture here. I hate that I have to leave my life in the US. I hate the people here. I hate because nobody understands. I am escalating with every day passed.
 I can't just do nothing. I called the psychiatry department of one of the most prominent hospitals in Jakarta today (05/23). I have never gone to a therapist in Jakarta. They werent sure what to answer when I asked," What are the specialities of the therapists?". I have been with 9 therapists. I am not feeling confident at all.
 I need somebody I can chat with, somebody I can utter my day-by-day predicaments with especially during this trying transitioning time. An online DBT program is best for me in my opinion. Do you offer an online DBT program? What is the best treatment option for me?