Ive been depressed for a while now and my parents hate me. I'm a 17 year old girl and they think it's hormonal mood swings but it's not. All I do is cry and cry and cry. I also have strong suicidal thoughts. Im trying to do better and fix things about myself, but I don't understand what's wrong with me or what I did for this to happen. My dad is more worse than my mom. He calls me stupid,selfish,ungrateful, and that he's not talking to me at all anymore since I dot want to talk to anybody. My mom she keeps asking what's wrong, but she's just angry and takes my dads side. It's not that I don't want to talk...they just wouldn't understand. They think just because I'm a teenager that means I'm not supposed to have any issues at all. My family isn't super wealthy, but we do very well. So I guess my parents think since they do so much for me and the fact I have so many materialistic things that I'm supposed to be super happy. I have issues with making/keeping friends , social anxiety, and really really bad self esteem. They don't understand. Plus I've tried to talk to my mom a long time ago, and she just called me crazy and told me to basically suck it up and grow up. My dad says I'm severely immature. My dad cheated on my mom a year or so ago so I feel like that broke my trust and overall relationship with him. I don't trust him anymore and majority of the time I feel like I hate him. He tries to justify his stepping out by saying at least he didn't leave us. It's BS!! With my mom honestly its like she has no mind of her own sometimes. My dad yells at her sometimes like she's his child. My mom tries to act like she doesn't take that mess but she does. She lets him talk to her like that. With social issues, I used to be very confident and think I was very beautiful which people have told me before. I'm on Christmas break now but a day or two before break I heard about at least 3 people calling me ugly. All girls and a few guys have said it before too. I have a boyfriend and I know I shouldn't worry about it but it bothers me. It makes me think that if everyone else says and thinks I'm ugly then why is my boyfriend with me?? I just don't feel like living anymore. My dad never calls me beautiful or says anything like that, and when he cheated I'm actually the one that caught him. He was on the phone secretly, and he was calling the woman beautiful and amazing. He never says anything like that to me or my mom. It just makes me feel useless, and unwanted. I always think they'd feel better without me, and they'd like t better with just my little sister. When it come to friends I had no problems when I was younger, but now it's horrible. I have many acquaintances but no best friends or close friends. Ever since Ive been depressed people have noticed I look sad and angry. So I was still angry and sad inside but put on the whole mask or happiness. That still didn't work. I talked to people and tried to get close but not too desperate and obvious. That didn't work. Even one of the most evil girls I know at that school has tons of friends so I don't know what I'm doing wrong. I asked my parents about seeig a therapist once and they got angry, especially my dad because he feels that I should talk to him and my mom. When I was younger that whole 'you can come talk to us about anything' line was never drawn. So I never felt comfortable talking to them about anything. If i can't talk to my mom about anything I definitely can't talk to my dad about anything. I'm just really lost, and I don't know what to do. I have nobody to talk to. My boyfriends great but nothings working. I hate that my parents are basing it of of maturity. Im going to college in the fall of 2014 and he says I need to grow up, and I have. There's only so much a person can take before they snap. I have an attitude where I hold everything in until something worse comes and I just explode. I feel like that's about to happen, but I don't know how and whys going to happen when i do. All I'm good at now is crying, laying in bed, crying and getting ganged up on by my parents. I dont know what to do.