Hi, I'm 52 years old and still have regular periods; however, I've had cramping so bad every month for the past 2 years that I would literally not be able to function.  Add a large amount of stress from taking care of an elderly Father who has since passed and a daughter graduating from college and moving halfway across the country (single Mom her whole life).....I finally broke down and went on Kariva birth control pills.  I had not take any form of birth control since the age of 28.  My Mother died of metastatic breast cancer so I've been reluctant to take any form of hormones.  However, I was completely desperate and that was 8 months ago.  I could immediately tell that it helped balance my mood, irritability, etc but I still had the cramps although not as bad.  This month I literally thought I was going to die as I was in such pain (labor pain bad!) and had very little bleeding.  On Sunday I decided to not start a new pack and have a salvia test done in a month or two in order to go one natural progesterone and whatever else I needed to "balance" my hormones.  At 52, I would think I HAVE to be close to menopause.  My Mother was pre-menopause when she got Breast Cancer at 49 and she died at 52.  I also take medicine for hypothyroidism.  This is all to tell some history on myself so I'm sorry for the long story.  
 Okay, now to the questions.  Everything on the Internet is so contradicting it makes me sick.  My doctors are clueless, even my ob/gyn.  They just want to write prescriptions!  That is another rant for another day.
 My problem is I have zero appetite most of the time so I eat horribly.  I do take some good supplements but I need to increase my protein intake in a major way.  I've read where soy is actually better for you when you are at this age but there is also contradicting information on this.  I need a good protein powder.  I am allergic to cows milk so whey protein makes me sick.  I just ran out of Dr. Sara Gottfried's (sp?) hormonal balancing protein powder but it was terribly expensive.  I also ran out of maca powder and did order more of it as I think that really helps.  Actually, I ran out right before my period!!!  That could be why it was so bad.
 Anyway, does anyone have an opinion or experience on soy based protein powders?  Should I stay away from them?  Any help would be greatly appreciated.