She is currently diagnosed by prescribing psychiatrist as Bipolar.  She is currently taking Lithium, Lamictal, Abilify and Wellbutrin. They do not seem to be working.   I have NEVER seen even one episode of manic behavior.  She has had 7 extensive psychiatric hospitalizations in the past 6 months following multiple suicide attempts, cutting, suicidal ideation and severe depression.  ALL hospital doctors have stated they do not agree with bipolar diagnosis.  Many have suggested BPD.  She is unable to sustain a relationship with any friends or boyfriends, when a friend does come over she asks me to hang out with them because (and I quote) "I don't know what to say to them".  If she calls one of her friends and they don't answer she automatically assumes they hate her and are avoiding her.  At that point she cuts that prson out of her life and will never speak to them again, all because they didn't answer when she called.  She believes everyone is talking about her behind her back, including strangers.   She has very low self-esteem and self-image issues with herself and her appearance (she is beautiful!).  She has confessed to risky sexual behavior with quite a few boys (i.e. having unprotected sex).  She just took a pregnancy test yesterday, thankfully it was negative.  She has also confessed to alcohol and pot use in the past, although she has been clean for 6 months, mostly due to the fact she's been hospitalized the entire time.  Her reactions to even the smallest thing are so extreme its scary.  Something as simple as not being able to find a hairbrush in the morning may prompt a "cutting" incident or even a suicide attempt.  At the very least, not being able to find her hairbrush is going to envelope her entire day and ruin it.   It was not always like this, prior to 6 months ago, she was fine as far as we could see; honor roll student, cheerleader, just a regular teenage girl.  Then one night in February we caught her drinking and grounded her.  That prompted a suicide attempt and nothing has ever been the same since.  Every time she is discharged from the hospital, she is home a few days sometimes a week, and then something upsets her and we are right back at square one requiring hospitalization again.  Does anyone have any input?  Should I consult another psychiatrist as her current one is standing by his bipolar diagnosis?  Thank you for any advice or suggestions.