I have a couple of questions about stress and it leading to depression, is that how it works? Stress leads to depression? Too Much of course. Also does stress and or depression cause memory loss, because I haven't been happy for a very long.time I've been so stressed out for as long as I can remember, started in high school. I am now graduated two years. But not only that I've just realized the other day I'm pretty sure I'm just flat out depressed, I have cried every day for the past week plus. I'm 26 weeks pregnant, my boyfriend gives me so many mixed signals i don't know which ones to take, he can treat me like a princess and like he actually loves me, and he can be the biggest jerk and act like I don't even exsist. We both have court tmrw for an argument that haapened back in Oct, where he smashed my phone and dumped water and Apple juice on me, two bottles, so this man from our work called the cops when I told him not to, they all surronded me in a room and made me write a statement. Which was bullcrap. I was under so much pressure and stress that day. Now my bf is telling me if I don't stick up for him then we will be done. When that day the cop told me if I go against my word ill put sent to jail and get a huge fine.. so my bf is putting me in between a rock and a really hard place. I don't know what to do. And then Thursday, I have a court hearing because this girl set me up, and I now have a pending felony, may I remind you I have NEVER been in trouble in my life and I was always considered the good girl. And again those cops who arrested me MADE me write a statement. Im not good under pressure.. at all, and my bf like won't stop smoking weed. No matter how much I beg him, because of our child, I'm on probation because of this situtation and don't want it around us. And because he buys it instead of saving for our rent... And it hurts us! Not imo that but he has been acting really weird and I just can't see if he even really wants to be together.. it seems as if he could be or have cheated on me again.. but idk if that's just in my head or not. I just don't know.. I'm tired of being here, there is like no where I feel safe or secure anymore I just don't know what to do. :(