Really depressed lately just trying to drink this away and I know ultimately it's making it worse. I was first diagnosed addadhd when I was a junior in high school. Was prescribed adderol which kind if worked but made me strung out with a bad sleep routine. Stopped taking adderol at one point a couple if years later and began self medicating with weed, alcohol, etc. tried again, was given seroquel and Wellbutrin, didn't notice any effects on Wellbutrin, seroquel made me exhausted. Retried adderol recently due to a close friends recommendation in getting a handle on my mental state, wound up feeling strung out and manic so I stopped. Now I'm honestly thinking suicudal which I already know is dumb and bad, I don't know what to do I've lost my spark for just about everything I really hate drinking and self medicating all the time because it has negative effects on my life obviously. I've been told I have possible bi polar and I have manic mood swings. It's effected my whole life and I feel hopeless, I don't want to feel like a victim anymore, tired of beating myself up everyday, can't seem to take care of myself at all. Really just adds to regular stressers in life, I want my old self back. What should I do minus going to an er ? Don't want to screw up the one job I have(only thing going it feels like) but my attitude does affect my work. I fortunately have health insurance, I really don't know what to do, I make everyone I care about upset and feel bad, anger sometimes towards them. It's not there fault, I just want to be happy and regular feeling this is ruining my life! I had a doctors appt the other day my dumb hungover butt decided not to go, I'm sick of living like I have been I want to change my future doesn't look bright anymore. Single, no kids, 26 yo male. I don't feel like I can make a connection with hardly anyone anymore, i dont see the purpose of living sometimes when im this upset, i want peace of mind. I'm just sad all the time, I used to be everyone's favorite and I'm losing my mind. Please just offer any suggestions, very appreciated.