As a child I was victimized by my mother, I believe she has Münchausen syndrome (but she will never admit to it). As a Child 5-13 I was taken to hundreds of different doctors and put on countless medications because she thought something was wrong with me. Every time it was out of my control because I was not of legal age to disagree with the doctors. 
 My most recent misdiagnosis was Klinfelters syndrome. This was in 2005 when she wondered why I was not starting puberty. I never believed I had it because I did not show any other physical characteristics, just delayed puberty - which is why I was diagnosed with it. Funny though, I was never actually genetically tested for it.
 But anyways, I found out yesterday I was diagnosed incorrectly... after 5 years of taking prescribed testosterone treatment, last week I got genetically tested for it and I came out negative. So I don't have it, and my dad has wasted $4000 over the past 5 years paying for a medication I never needed - because of my mother.
 After finding this out I looked at all my records. After digging for awhile I looked to the very back and found that At age 6 I was diagnosed with Bipolar, and then at age 7 Autism??????? Among a lot of other ridiculous things, but in comparison those two are the worst. I wasn't even aware of this until yesterday. Or I completely forgot about it, the last thing I remember medically at that time in my life, is getting my tonsils removed at that was when I turned 8. 
 I am completely outraged as to what my mother has stamped me with. It has caused quiet a lot of problems with what I am currently trying to accomplish in school. I want to work for the airlines but with my false history that will be impossible. I have never wanted to do anything else in my life more then I want to fly. 
 Right I am learning how to fly.... and I am going to college, I build computers... and I have an active social life. I am pretty damn sure I am not autistic. I am a perfectly normal functioning human being. I am emotionally stable with no medication - I have never taken bipolar medication. And acording to my dad, my grandma, my friends, and my family physician - I am normal. That being said, I think I should have all these outraged statements and labels removed from my records because they are inaccurate... and if anything, they will cause more problems in the future. Not to mention completely kill my career. 
 What are the steps I need to take?