I am not really sure how to ask my question. I KNOW what IS causing my depressive problems if that's any help at all... at least for the most part. I am embarrassed to share with everyone what I feel because I am not sure if I am  serious enough to even be considered or worth discussing. It has a lot to do with being a student, so I'm sorry if that's not what you like to read, and I do not want to crowd the scene from others who may have it far worse than me. Most of my depression comes from mental stress/abuse/humiliation and mental/physical pain, although it's hard to tell which one is causing which symptom. I hate myself more than I should, but I KNOW I deserve it, and I am terrified that this may not be normal.
 I have been feeling: Nauseous (but not literally throwing up, just no strong appetite), have slight headaches with mostly sharp pains hear the front of my head and behind the eyes (I study a lot though), lower back aches and chest pains (nothing interior, mostly my muscles), and pretty much ever kind of muscle twitch and spasm you could imagine every few hours or so. I've gotten so use to them that I can fall asleep normally, but still wake up exhausted and sore. I fell dizzy walking up and down the stairs, my ears tingle (from constant noise and shouting, not too surprising), and my hands shake so violently to the point where it causes me PAIN to try and stop them. I feel just awful and I am completely unaware of how to stop these random problems.
 On top of all this, my face is usually slightly swollen from softly crying myself to sleep every few months or so, because I can't in all good conscience figure out what to do with myself at this point. I have been in school since elementary, and this is my 5th year at a COMMUNITY COLLEGE. I was either part time or full time each semester, depending if I could afford the gas money. I changed my major around the time that the economy crashed, which was my 2 year mark. Just next semester and I am done, but my master's major requires a 4-6 year program at a major university, a place which I have NO IDEA how to get to and how I would pay for in the long run.
 I can cook, clean, wash, lift heavy loads, is polite and sincere, and just LOVE household work, so I am NOT some "couch potato" as they say. Despite my family ridiculing me for being a small and fragile woman, I always enjoyed fixing and cleaning things. It's the only kind of meditation that keeps me "alive" on the inside. It also helps give me some self confidence because not ONE woman I have met my age (and even older) has ANY idea how to take care of a household or family. NOT ONE. Because of this, I have NO female friends and only a handful of male acquaintances. I am too nervous to date though. I am afraid they will discover my family and/or consider me a possible burden to them. I do NOT wish myself on ANY man, I will achieve my OWN goals on my own. Plus I do NOT want to date when I am trying to get a master's degree and a normal job, one of my ultimate and normal achievements so that I can support myself on my own. What can I say? I love to learn and work!
 Unfortunately, I am 24 years old and STILL WITH MY PARENTS. My parents have been murder ever since I was 15. The alcohol and drug abuse never let up, and they have never supported me. I GUARANTEE you with ever dusty penny I have saved growing up that they DELIGHT in bringing me pain. Every time I cry, they smile and raise their arms with fists in the air. Every time they scowl at me for something and I walk away, I usually get something thrown at the back of my head (light, but a million tons on the heart). Since they never caused any physical marks, I couldn't report them to anyone, and they are such fabulous actors. My high school never believed me. In fact, they blamed me and said I wasn't "tough" or "smart" enough to succeed in life and "wasn't getting it".
 I never in all my life put anything disgusting or vile into my mouth, so I THOUGHT I was pretty healthy and that pains and shakes were normal... but I am slowly learning that it is not. EVERYONE I know in this god forsaken country thinks it's absolutly normal to abuse drugs and alcohol a little in your life, but I don't find anything alluring about it at all. Because of this I was ridiculed, cast out, and BLAMED for being too weak. I was always made fun of for not "going that extra step". But actually I just refused, partly out of fear that I would become my parents, but mostly out of disgust because the smell was just AWFUL to me, and I ran off to throw up every time I came too close to a drunk person. Even THAT wasn't normal, and I was just 12 when I first did that. What can I say? My stomach is sensitive, and I feel so pathetic for that. This was when I began having back problems I think, but my hands were shaky for as long as I can remember.
 I have completely given up on my family and have come to the unbelievable conclusion that I just simply do not love them. I feel so ashamed and embarrassed to think this, and I make myself sick just thinking about my carelessness. My family, in a typical low class home, have gone out of their way to do what they can for me, but in return spew out violence and rage towards me because they believe that it is their right to do so since they brought me into this world. They deny any and all evidence that I night be my own person. They REFUSE to believe that I have a mind of my own, and I LITERALLY mean this... ANYTHING I SAY OR TYPE THEY THINK I AM "GUESSING", AND THEY WILL GO OUT OF THIR WAY TO TRY AND PROVE THAT TO ME, EVEN CONVINCE OTHERS LIKE MY COUNCILORS AND COLLEGES THAT CALL ASKING FOR ME. They will NOT support me nor help me, but do not stop me because they LAUGH at my efforts and LOVE seeing me spend my money away on something that won't make a difference by the fall of 2013, where I'll have nothing else to take at school. My achievements are cast off as nothing, and since they cause too large of scenes, I have lost any and all friends. I now roam the internet broken and alone, afraid of what to do at this point and too nervous to talk to anyone.
 I have nothing. No leads, no financial support (part time minimum wage job but someone paid for every class out of my own picket), and NO financial aid or student loan support because my GPA is bellow 2.5. I sleep and eat on a couch and corner table in the living room, and I don't have my own computer or vast amount of study resources because I just simply can't afford any. No privacy either (this is the family's computer). I am simply trapped under my own household, and it's humiliating and embarrassing to say the least... especially to my family and especially when I see other kids only one or two years younger than me are already earning their degrees with much higher GPA's.
 I have NO opinion or say in ANY matter whatsoever, and for the past 5 years I have kept everything to myself as well as I could. Ironically, I am SCOWLED at for not even speaking to anyone, let alone "being part of the family", but I just can't do it. They know I clean and care for them, but they REFUSE to care. I KNOW I am not being stubborn because people have told me again and again that they can SEE I am not violent and or "spooled"(?) and advice me to avoid my family as much as I can and move out..... but this is where my problem comes in.... I HAVE NO WHERE ELSE TO GO. Those who advice me can not give me any support and I do not blame them at all, but I MUST ask everyone where someone can with NO contacts or financial support and to move out and live on or near a campus so that they can have a normal life? I don't know what do to! No money, weak job, no contacts, and virtually no hope at this point. On top of everything, my body is breaking down and I couldn't even flip a page in my text book today because I was shaking and crying so much. Anyone out there, can you please give some advice? Please?