I'm 17 years old and think I am suffering from depression. I have tried speaking to my mum about it but she thinks I'm doing it for attention. Also I dont think she wants to admit it to herself because she doesn't want to feel like she's failed as a parent. I dont want her to feel like that because I love her. But I had an awful childhood. My mum had drinking problems and overdosed on sleeping pills once. I had to look after my little sister and bang the bathroom door down when I was 13. My dad and mum have been divorced since I was 11, and now he won't see me. He's cut me off from his life but he loves my sister. I miss him terribly. Having to deal with all of that has been awful and sometimes it makes me feel like meaningless scum. I also have tritchotilomania, which makes me hate myself. The funny thing is, I'm popular, talented, clever and seem like I have a perfect life, perfect friends, but I don't. Inside I'm screaming. I've not been able to sleep at all lately, I've been crying myself to sleep, I've been crying for no reason and find myself looking in the mirror and hating what I see. I'm starting to think I Look ugly and fat and I'm constantly trying to starve myself thin. And recently I've cut my wrist three times. I have had suicidal thoughts before. I've wanted to get out of this world so much because it doesn't seem like a world anymore. It feels like hell. I've got nothing to look forward to, and I just feel like saying, what's the point? I dont think anyone would care if I died, even all of you, who post comments trying to help which is lovely, but none of you actually know me and none of you would care. When I cut my wrist I didn't do it to kill myself. I dd it to feel. I wanted to feel something worse than what I felt inside. So that it would take my mind off of the hatred and anger that had built up. I don't want to die, because I keep thinking that I'll find a way out of this. I'm trying to be strong but it's so hard. The only reason Im hanging on is because of my little sister who I love with all my heart and without me she will have no one. I don't want to be selfish and leave her. She has me but I have no one. Even my best friend has distanced herself from me and has found a new best friend ( which I know sounds ridiculously cringey and immature ) but when she is all I had, it's hard when that goes too.. 
I don't know what to do anymore. I go out and drink excessive amounts to drown out what I feel and to forget everything. It's easier when your paralytically drunk because you can't even feel. Im surrounded by people that don't understand. Please help.