My parents are doctors so they're never around and since we lived in the Philippines the maids took care of me. Ever since I was little I also believed that I was a mistake and y parents were trying to avoid me. My mom had gotten pregnant even after being on birth control, I don't feel welcome. We migrated to the US when I was 8 and since the day we got to US my whole life has been about my older sister...and later her and my older brother. They always got the attention. And i was just there, as if I never existed. I was had a weird scar on my face and ever since I was 8 my sister, brother and my dad would make fun of me. I would cry myself to sleep. I was never quick to learn like my siblings and because of that Ii was considered a " disappointment." My whole life has been decided for me. I've never had a choice. My parents put me in pageants and never let me quit....I've wanted to since quit since I was 9. I was forced to leave my theater arts school and follow my siblings footsteps in IB. Where both my siblings are validictorians.... I can't focus in school, my teachers hate me cause I learn slow and they need to work fast. I have panic attacks at school, I feel as if I'm having a heart attack, but I don't wanna say anything .......
Since I was 7, I've hated life, i dont see the point in living if all I am is invisible and follow everything my parents want me to do, I'm never in the mood to eat, i easily get mad, I am highly insecure, I hate being social but I put on a fake smile and personality to make my family happy, and act like I'm not a "disappointment."  I've had thoughts of dying, ideas everyday. The world would be much better without me in it.  I tried cutting myself when I was a sixth grade, but stopped. I wanted to see if my parents really cared for me.....during a track meet I ran the hurdles......all of a sudden my mind had a thought that if I don't jump I'll fall on my head, and either crack my head and die or be in a coma....either way I'd be happy..... I did it..... i banged my head on the track....got big cuts on my legs and arms, I was so pissed at myself that I didnt succeed. I make plans to die without really committing suicide and many other things and now I'm scared.
 I wanna have my own life....without these thoughts.... I wanna tell my mom but I'm scared she'll think I'm lying or get mad that I tried so many things to leave this world.... HELP ME! I NEED HELP...but I'm afraid to admit it to others.....I told my friend whose sister tried the things I did... and was sent to a psychiatric hospital right after she was diagnosed and stayed there for months. What do I tell my mom?
 What should I do? And is what happened to my friends sister happen to me too?