I'm a 19 year old assigned female at birth and I believe I have symptoms/fit the description of having BPD. I grew up in an unstable household and I was the only child's so I had myself to understand and process these feelings of anger and sadness at a young age which resulted in becoming impulsive with my actions. This behavior continued as I grew older and progressively worsened as I've bought drugs on impulse only to have a bad high, spending money on items and forgetting I have bills to pay, and harm myself without thinking twice about what repercussions would follow after my impulse. Besides being highly impulsive, I'm often feeling hallow and depersonalized/derealized of who I am and where I am physically. Whenever I have a really bad derealization episode, I often behave in a way I normally wouldn't (touch and grab things to bring myself back to being in my body, slap/punch myself enough to feel pain to come back, blast music so loud I'd have to hear it back in my head and need to lower it down) and sometimes this happens while I'm crossing the street. I'm constantly breaking down into tears every single day because I am alone and scared and not exactly in the most supportive environment at home. I tend to obsess over someone I find some kind of romantic/sexual feelings for and will do whatever they want me to so they don't leave me. When they ignore me, I often see them as a highly negative person in my life and tell myself that them ignoring me is the same emotional abuse I'm used to and rationalize why I'm stuck on this person. I often experience what I've read to be called "splitting" - hating and loving the person I am infatuated with at the same time. I have horrible social anxiety and sometimes I feel like I can't breathe and I have to remind myself to breathe when I'm in public by myself with my glasses off. I don't know what to do. I'm currently seeing a therapist and have been consulted for medication, however, with my current family situation and lack of a job (I'm reapplying for another soon so perhaps that will help my situation) money is a bit tight and I don't exactly have the money to be in outpatient therapy and receive medication. I have medical insurance but I'm afraid it might not be enough and there would be a large copay charge and I'm much too afriad to seek help from my family (beside my dad) because I don't need their judgement of their only child being demented or deemed another hurtful word from someone I care so much about that I want to figure out what is going on to better myself for myself and for those around me. I just need help. I want to function. Not being ill would be ideal but functioning with this is the ultimate goal.