Hey I am a 22 year old male. I have been a runner since I can remember but started lifting weights a couple years ago. Exercise became an outlet for me in college and has really helped with my mental health/school/social life. Early January I hurt my shoulder real badly doing overhead db tricep extensions too heavy/with elbows outward. I saw an orthopedist and started physical therapy. It has seemed to help. However, not being able to workout was really affecting my mental health, so I started overdoing lower body/running everyday and ended up straining my left quad on the leg press a little over a month ago. The pain seems to be off and on but if I walk around too much it hurts afterwards and takes awhile to feel "okay" again. Well after injury number two, I started doing some light upper body again since my shoulder was getting a little better. I was doing abs hard everyday because someone said you can do abs everyday and I felt the need to work something to feel better mentally. About two weeks ago, strained my left ab/oblique doing weighted crunches. So now I have three injuries and I am not working out/running or anything at all. None of the injuries had any swelling or bruising, but they still have not healed. I tried ice/heat etc.. I am still in physical therapy for my shoulder but the other injuries have kinda halted that process as well. I fee like an 80 year old everything hurts... With all this, graduation, and failed relationship attempts, my mental health is nonexistent- zero motivation/very depressed/anxious/questioning my career/professional school decision/capabilities- bad. I almost feel the need to take some time off and regroup my life...I haven't seen a doctor about my leg or abdomen because I just went for my shoulder and it is embarrassing/expensive. I am worried that I will never feel "okay" again. I really want/need to get back into the gym someday (but obviously go much lighter and with a better routine). I am seeing a therapist and considering SSRI's (again -_- )