Hi 
I have been diagnosed with heart failure 2 years ago which was due to chemotherapy I received as a child. I am better now and my heart is controlled with meds. I wasn't sure which forum to post this on because this involves many issues 
 - I am on beta blockers 
- I am currently tapering from a high dose of dihydrocodeine which I know dehydrates a lot (hence the chronic on and off constipation which I am trying to sort out 
- I have excessive sweating at night which makes me lose many nutrients as a result making me insomniac as it wakes me up as have to change throughout the nights and I feel tired all the time with lack of energy - this is a side effect of paxil which I am soon to be changing. Reason for paxil is that it's one of only ADs which isn't cardiotoxic to heart. I used to take cymbalta and then Effexor which were great but now I'm stuck with SSRIs which don't work as well and have caused this night sweating which is destroying me. I am soon to change to sertraline but not sure it'll b as effective but I'm willing to give it a go!
 My question is this: will Dioralyte help me retain some balance again due to loss of nutrients?? I have an appointment with my addictions doctor today but wanted some info from anyone who knows anything about this first before I talk to him.
Will the salt intake from Dioralyte affect my heart? I am having blood tests done soon hopefully to check creatinine levels for kidneys (to be monitored for the heart meds I'm taking) and a blood test to show the nutrients I must be depleted in. My eyes are white when I open them downwards and the under eye below eyeball is white so I know there's some anaemia going on here. I eat as healthy as I can!
 Yes I have been drinking much water and not tea or coffee or alcohol. 
 I asked a pharmacist about this and he recommended Dioralyte but I don't think he took the heart pills / condition into consideration .. And I know that too much water retention can cause edema.. I'm not really allowed to have too much salt in my diet.
 I am unsure if iv posted on the correct forum but any advice would be lovely. This is making me obsessing and anxious and most doctors get slightly overwhelmed as there are several factors here to deal with which are specialised.. Some have even told me to speak with my cardiologist or a psychiatrist but then these doctors say that it's not their field of study so I'm left with only myself to do the research by combining everything they each say to me on their specialities which is very hard to do but sometimes there is no other way.
Thanks