Right i'm not suffering as such from anger but it makes me curious whether what happened with my family and the things that happened in my life alone could be the cause of my anger.
 Right when my younger brother was born in 1996 my father started taking cannabis, which he used to smoke on occasions then he got onto harder drugs (Speed, Heroin etc) he spiked my mothers food with speed which he said was "to help her be more active!" which put her in hospital with severe depression as she was having thoughts of killing us (Her children) to protect us from our father.
 He stole from us and made my mother think she was going crazy, he stole a computer my uncle gave to us, he stole money while my mother slept he even stole a video recorder while the police were in the next room! 
He also had a habit of turning up our of the blue, while we was shopping or when my mum was picking us up from school. I didn't really understand what he did to our family until recently while listen to a Eminem song it kind of made me start thinking of him, and what he did to our family putting us through so much sh*t!
 We eventually moved in 2001 to get away from him, we didn't give him our new address but he soon found us where he stole from us AGAIN! He stole money on Christmas, he broke in while my elder brother slept and tried breaking into a safe which had nothing in. When we moved i didn't have the chance to say goodbye properly to my friends, and to get numbers & address' which made moving that bit harder knowing no one in the new place.
The teachers there treated me like dirt, one teach in particular grabbed me by the scruff. When i told my mum she didn't believe me, it wasn't until 3 years ago when the same teacher got suspended for putting a 8 year old girl up against the wall, that's when she believed me.
 And recently (within the last year) my best friend of 5 years Matthew stabbed me in the back by going off with the girl i loved so much and so deeply! That's was the breaking point, i had a emotional breakdown from all those years of everything going wrong for me! Meeting that girl (Tyler) was the greatest thing that happened to me and for my best friend to do that to me just lit the fuse! 
 At that point after all that had happened i just stopped caring, i didn't care what people thought about me, or how i treat people. later last year i had a second breakdown where i nearly strangled someone which i got restrained but broke out of that restraint and kicked a locked garden gate open. then kicked two full refuse bins 8-9 feet into the road and walked off crying. 
 Thanks for reading :-)
 Ben