My  ex husband and I divorced 8 years ago.
He kicked the kids and I out 9 years ago. He got himself a Filipino, mail order bride to replace me with, a year before he kicked us out...I didn't know...he told the government that she was our nanny...and I never even knew about her! Wow! Wish she would have been the nanny...she could have done laundry and stuff that last year we were together lol. He had her stashed in a hotel a town over from our's. Wonder how he paid? 
 Anyway...all of a sudden, about three weeks ago, he sends me a picture of his weenie!
 He's constantly sending me texts...(and 3 more of his weenie) and interfering with my daily life. I'm not a texting sort of person...I have housework to do! 
He wants me to come and do some work on his new house. Says the flooring needs to be done....did I mention it's a NEW house?  I own a contracting business...hence the flooring ploy.
He's trying every thing in his power to get me to go back to the town we used to live in.
He's married....I'm engaged. I do NOT want him back. 
The pictures he sends make me want to vomit. I'm not a cheater...he is.
I would block him, but it's the only phone I have...and the third oldest still lives with him.
I would LOVE to tell his wife " YO! Your husband is trying to cheat on you with me...the one he cheated on me with"! 
Well...part of me does...but she's a nice enough lady...and certainly doesn't deserve this...or maybe she does...for willingly going after a married man, when she was still married...and got her divorce here...since divorce isn't allowed in her country too often they say. 
Anyway, not here to complain about immigration laws...here to bash ex husbands that are pigs lol. 
 How do I get him to stop? I have tried ignoring him...not replying to any of his texts. I have told him straight out that I am showing these to future hubby...which I did...except the pictures, which he didn't want to see lol.
 The guy is driving me crazy. Today he asked me to go there so that he could take me for dinner, bowling, and a movie. Things he never did with me when we were married.
Told him to take his wife.
Then he sent another picture. UGH!!! I really don't want to see it. I told him that. Maybe I should have asked him when he got circumcised...would have brought back painful memories...seeing on how it only happened sometime recently. lol
Anyone?
Keep in mind that ds is still living with him...so blocking is not an option.