I have been seeing a guy for about seven months. He has a daughter, who is 9, and she sleeps with him nightly and will not take a shower alone (without him in the bathroom). He said he would address it but I can tell that he hasn't because she hates staying at my house where she must follow my rules (including sleeping in her bed and showering alone). When I ask him why, after 7 months, she is still displaying this behavior, he states that to "break her" of this is just too difficult.
 Additionally, she makes remarks and smiles at me in a jealous way. Sometimes she loves me to death, but particularly if I am staying the night, just before bed, she seems to challenge me in an off way. I ignore the behavior and talk to her dad about it. It hasn't really changed.
 She has other signs of insecurities. She whines all the time, she likes to call the shots for no other purpose then to get her way and she is a bit manipulative. She will say, as she did last night, that she wants to go home to "stay with her kitty cats" but in reality, she wants to sleep with her dad.
 He will initially tell her no but then make excuses as to why we can't hang out. His latest excuse was that he had a blister on his nose and he didn't want me to see it. 
 I don't know if this is sexual because she did the same with her mom and her mom's new husband (get in-between them in bed, refuse to sleep alone, make him sleep on the couch). He (the new step-dad) eventually called this little girl a b*t*c* to another family member (not to or in front of the child). This enraged my boyfriend who proceeded to punch the new step-dad. The step-dad, after a few short weeks of marriage, left. His behavior was definitely inappropriate but my boyfriend seemed to take a bad situation and make it worse by over-reacting to his comment as if the child was his wife, not his daughter.
 I am not sure what to make of it. I have children myself, and none have ever slept in bed with me on a regular basis. They sometimes have bad dreams and the like, but after they fall asleep I move them. Also, I do not go in the bathroom with them when they shower, especially my son (ever!). This little girl seems to have deep seeded emotional issues and I wonder IF anything IS going on.
 Tonight, I discussed my concerns with him once more and he became defensive. He said that me thinking of him as a perv was deeply disturbing and that we have major problems. I care about him deeply but I am thinking that at very least these are problems that I am not willing to endure. Any thoughts or suggestions? Thanks!