I love my boyfriend, we been together for almost three years and we were friends before we dated. We have a 9 month old baby. We had issues...a lot. He was immature and stupid and the stress of last year caused him to get emotionally and physically violent. He was put in jail in December for over a month and put through anger management and I went to awareness classes. Once he got out and the contact order lifted he was the old sweet guy I fell for...it lasted for a few months and he started to get angry and controlling...then I sat him down and talked to him and got through to him that it's not right. He has matured a lot and everything has been good, in fact I became the one who wore the pants in the relationship for quite a while (still kind of do) but a few weeks ago we had an incident walking from Walmart....he called me boring and it wasn't playful so I told him that wasn't right and it made me extremely upset.
All of a sudden he starts ranting about stuff, I can't even remember what. I remember saying "whatever, you want to be an *** then I'll be an *** back. I'm going home" and I turned around and started walking towards home. He grabs my arm and is like growling "no!" I twist out of his grip and tell him firmly not to touch me. His eyes changed...they turned cold and he grabs me again and says "what are you to do about it" he takes my grocery bag and stomps a few feet ahead of me then stops and turns around and just glares at me. 
I'm so surprised that I just don't move, I can't help but to glare at him. Like, who does he think he is? And I say that he's being a little childish...and because I say that he takes the diapers out of the bag and throws the thing across someone's lawn and the baby puffs. At that point I realize where this argument was headed and deep down I knew I couldn't stay. I went over and picked up the stuff. He slaps it out of my hand and I tell him to quit. I'm doing everything I can to not cry at this point cuz I was getting scared, more scared that someone would see us. I stand up and look him dead in the eye and said "I'm done. I can't do this."
I picked the stuff up again and put it in the bag. He rips the bag from me...completely ruining it so I tucked the stuff under my arm. I remember I was worried about my wallet, I'd just cashed my check and had my phone in it. He of course took my wallet and the groceries from me and threw them again. 
"Whatever" I said and left the stuff and walked down the street. He keeps up with me, throwing the stuff at me "where are you going!"
"Home" I said as I started to cry. 
"You're being pathetic right now" he emphasized every word by hitting the stuff into my chest. 
I kept walking. I think he started to calm down cuz he kept calling my name a he tried to keep up. He grabbed my shoulder, lightly than before "Hannah-**** there's a cop"
And deep down I thought "thank god...there's still honorable people who'd call 911 when a woman is in danger" but another part of me was afraid he'd go to jail again...and we kept walking till the cop car pulled up and the police procedure of taking our names and our stories....and stupid me lied, said we were just arguing over stress and that he wasn't hurting me. 
And once the cop left, he came up to me and hugged me tightly and begged me to forgive him that he was an ******* and he was so sorry and how he took it way too far and he didn't know why. The rest of the time we walked he kept rubbing my arm and trying to hold my hand but I felt so numb....I should've broken up with him, I know...
I know what abuse is and I know I should leave. But since then nothing has happened, I fact I'm in complete control right now, I'm kind of mean to him lately and he's been sweet....I just...I feel like he's going to take control again or start the physical stuff again and I don't know what to do it it happens....cuZ I won't tolerate it again....but I need advice on what to do and how to get over him