I met this guy in a networking website. He was very formal & tempting. I liked him & i did get closer to him,we exchanged numbers & i did share my deepest secrets with him.
Forgive me but i was moved when i received an offer of  hundreds of dollars from him. He didn't tell me about the job role & insisted to meet me and explain.
So i met him,he had arranged a dinner and i was very happy because he had proposed me the last night. I was very happy to earn besides my school education.
After the dinner was over,he asked me to move to his place. I was a bit baffled & could not decide. Upon reaching his house,there were 3 other men who grabbed 
me & asked me to get naked. On asking why, They tore my clothes,tied my hands to a sofa and confined me to a corner. Now i realised what i did but had no option.
They raped me anytime they wanted. For two days i had no food & no stamina to stand. i cried only for freedom. then they gave me some food
& threw me an option to choose food & do as they say or to die. they switched my cell phone off and i was not able to move anywhere apart from standing in a 
corner & get used. finally they released me after 10 days & threatened me not to tell this to anyone otherwise the 10 day videos would be posted online.
i have regrets to trust a stranger and get used,at the same time this remains a secret as i have not gathered the confidence to tell my closest ones.
i cannot go for a police complain as the videos are with them. the only choice they have given me is to get used as a prostitute and serve their clients
and get the required amount of money that they would have got selling my videos and after that they would give away my videos.
i am working for them from the last 10-15 days and dont know how long will it take.the worst fact of my life is that the guy is a friend of my cousin brother which
i didn't know. Neither my dad,nor my mom loves me and they have full beleive on my cousins, thats why i am in a boarding school struggling,
so telling them would invite falsification on my part. I can only go the police after i get my videos and i no longer have that courage to speak. Those guys
have a written statement of mine that everything has been done as per my wishes for which i have paid them,signed by me down.These days are the worst
days of my life and i feel like commiting suicide. my best friend who alone knows my secret suggested me this website.I dont know what to do right now.i dont have
that state of mind to explain nor the courage to tell anyone what happened. Its a shock & only i know what it feels to be treated like a slave and used from a blooming
adolsecence. I have gathered much courage to type this and if anyone feels something to be done please do help me out.