-- You can skip to the end for question. --
When I was 16 I heard what I thought was the voice of satan while praying to god.  It said "are you trying to save him?"  I thought I must be Jesus to hear that while praying.  That only lasted a few seconds and it dawned on me I was the son of satan.  After a brief few moments I decided I was another son of god.  I immediately believed I should have special powers like influencing people with my will or reading their thoughts.  I decided god would come back for me some day and save me.
 I lived most my life depressed with wild momemts of drug and alcohol abuse.  About half of the time I have been depressed and sober and half of the time living like a drunk drug crazed maniac. I always had a sense of being some kind of prophet but no real psychosis  Because of all of this I was diagnosed bi-polar type 1 with psychosis.  However at the age of 40, I had the exact same thing happen as 16 only I was sure I was jesus and that god and I were saving earth and satan and his people were trying to stop us.  After a year of homelessness (my way of saving earth) along with intense mania and psychosis, my girlfriend and I got an apartment.  There I came to terms with not being jesus and decided I was another son of god.  Because I continue on with psychosis (along with other symptoms) my diagnosis was changed to schizoaffective.  I can't seem to get out of the idea that I am on some kind of mission for god.
 They have me on a lot of medication and it does help some.  But I just can't get over the delusions, the pacing, the talking out loud to people who are not really there, the idea that I am ona a mission with divine identity, etc.  Sleep disturbance has been plagueing me for 4 years as well.  The other thing that drives me crazy is I can't help but draw divine meaning to coincidences (numbers like clocks and elevators drive me crazy).  I believe that musical lyrics have special meaning for me.  I am highly sensitive, withdrawn, And when the people who are not really there are not doing it, I relentlessly beat myself up.  I seem to also be slipping into OCD tendencies.
  Question:
 Please help.  I seem to continously deny I have a mental health condition all the while telling everybody I do and taking medications.  And by the way, I have been sober for 4 years now.  I need to hear some other peoples experiences in their life and  any similarities (or additional symptomolgy) they might share.  I think this will help me with my denial.
 Thank you.   
 John