Ok so my husband and I have been married since 07. We got together in 05 and I took care of my step son from his previous relationship. The mom was never really a problem and we became best Friends before she had massive stroke and died. Well any way me and my hubby split in 09,I left because he was drinking way too much and we were fighting and I couldn't handle the stress. So about a month after.. she came into the picture. I didn't care I never kept his children from him and we always got along. We even had a three way one night when they came to my house to see the kids. Well about 3months in to there relationship he told his mom he wanted to break up with her and get back with me. The very next day she told him she was pregnant. At this point he felt he had to stay because she was prego. She TRAPPED him! Anyhow fast forward about 2 years later they ended up splitting up and he left her. They are NOT compatible. So we decided to work on our marriage. She has hated me ever since. She tried to say she was prego again and pulled all kinds of s***! We knew it wasn't true! My husband and I started back together at my moms house with no car and three kids. We now have a successful lawn business and our own place and vehicle and doing great for ourselves! She has told me if she wanted him she could have him. Little does she know! We are super HAPPY!! She says that her son cannot come to my home without her being right there and that he's too scared because he doesn't "know"us. And that he thinks I'm crazy.oh and my house is too dirty and he knows what he doesn't want to be around. Really? A 5 year old. OK! Well the straw that broke the camels back was one day the middle of June she texts around 5oclock and says hes been wanting to see you and been trying to call you. Can you please call him. So of course he calls and she puts him on the phone and he says I want to come see you daddy. So they made plans and she was coming to drop him off. Mind you this woman hates me and never let's him come to our house always an excuse or some dumb reason. She drops him off at 8, and says have him home by 11:30. She has a sugar daddy so she drives his "so awesome" hummer around with no license. Thinks she's total hot sh*t. I thought it was weird since this was the first time she EVER just dropped him off to us so easily without all the craziness. I knew something was up. Well we spend time with him and he was excited to play with his sister and two older brothers and dad he even talked and played with me and acknowledged me by name. I love kids and they love me! So when we took him home we got there and she comes out with a see thru tank top with no bra on and her nipples showing. Such a ****! Then she proceeds to goto her truck and gets his shoes out she brings them to him and smiles and says here you left these in my truck from the other night when you snuck out. I was completely flabbergasted! I mean what was I supposed to say? I just stood there in silence and my husband was like "Yeah ok Lauren" she says oh I was just kidding u know you left them when we all went to the pool. I already knew that. I was there and I put them in her truck! How long did she sit there and think out what she was going to say? Who does that! We haven't talked to her much since then except for when we ask her if we can keep him again and she refuses to let him. She says he doesn't know us enough anymore and he doesn't want to go anywhere without her and if we didn't hang out then we are not going to see him at all.. and my hubby decided he has had enough and we went to the clerk of courts office to file a motion for contempt. We have joint custody with her and she is not complying with that states we get him everyother weekend and holiday. I can't wait to see the look on her face when she gets served! Thank GOD. I just don't know what she's going to try to say. She's so crazy! So does anyone know if you can be in the room with your spouse at a hearing for her being in contempt? how does it work? This woman has gone out of her way to try and get to me and make sure I know she doesn't like me. I have so many incidents I could tell you all day about the stuff this girl says an does to me and my children and hubby.