I'm a seventeen year old girl and I think I might be depressed. I don't do drugs or drink any alcohol, and I don't cut myself. I am a fairly popular kid in highschool. I used to think I was normal, but I just realised today that I haven't been acting like myself lately. My grades have dropped (I used to get 90's, now I barely get 70's) because I have trouble concentrating. I have been feeling angry and have had many mood swings that my friends and family have noticed. I cry myself to sleep for absolutely no reason. I often feel very sad. I'm not suicidal, however I have thought about it (just of what would happen, not of actually commiting it). I don't go out anymore, I barely call or text my friends, and I have been a little unsociable lately. I used to want to apply to a very competitive college but now I don't think I'm smart enough. The activities I used to enjoy I avoid now. I was at a concert a week ago, one that I have been dreaming to go to all my life, because they're British and never come to the US, and while in line, I seriously thought about just going home and sleeping. I also have noticed that my sleeping habits have changed, I can barely sleep. My eating habits haven't changed much; I used to be really thin, and I have gained ten pounds, but I think that is really normal, you can't even tell I gained weight. I've been feeling really sad, and thought that the whole world has been bleak and lifeless. I feel like the world is experiencing a great depression, however when I asked someone about if they remember being happier a year ago, they replied that they feel the same. 
 I do not want to admit to my family that I am feeling depressed, because I think they will feel like I want attention. That's the opposite of what I want. I have been trying to hide my feelings as much as possible but aparently it's not working because people have noticed I don't act like I did before. 
 However, that being said, I'm not sulking around 24/7, I do go to work, and have conversations with people. So what should I do? Should I try to see if it wears off? I don't really think it is that important or serious to see a doctor or go on medication. Is there a way to cure it by myself? I don't really want anyone to know that I am depressed unless I need to. Also therapy wont work; I'm just not that type of person.