I'm a week over 8 months pregnant, the man who got me pregnant broke up with me before I even knew I was pregnant, and after finding out, I told him and all he said was that he wasn't going to do anything for me, and to pretty much go to hell. 
At the beginning of my pregnancy I started dating another man who knew right off the bat (as I told him the first time we actually hung out together, even though we had talked before and pretty much worked together, he didn't know until I told him) but we started dating after he asked me to be his girlfriend. 
Things took off with him, we fell in love, he wanted to be their when my son is born, even in the delivery room, and saw my son as his own, and he planned out a future for us. He wanted to get me a ring, once my son was born he wanted to start looking at houses to get one together, he wanted to get married, he wanted to eventually a few years from now have a baby together. 
After him being around the whole pregnancy just about, being there while I was hospitalized for a month and a half, he would even sneak behind the nurses backs to lay in the bed and cuddle with me because we both felt better sleeping that way and they didn't want him in the bed with me to spark preterm labor again. 
Last Friday, when I hit 8 months, they released me from the hospital to continue bed rest at home. He stayed with me that night, but wasn't originally planning to because he had plans to go out that were cancelled, so he ended up getting to stay with me. Everything was fine. 
Saturday night I was home texting him while he was at the bar at his dad's band's gig with a friend of his. I texted him asking if he'd come over the next day, and he said he would. I asked him if he'd stay with me again, and he said he couldn't, that he had plans with his friend. It upset me, I don't know if it's just the hormones of pregnancy, but I got upset, and texted him saying that I couldn't do it anymore, I was tired of feeling like he didn't want to be with me, and that he was free (basically breaking up with him). Well as soon as I sent it, I sent another text saying I'm sorry, and I didn't mean it, and that I was just upset, and I don't want to break up, but all he said was "wow, you think I'm always doing something wrong when I'm not, and thanks for setting me free though (:".
That was the last I heard of him. It's been almost a week. And after trying to contact him just about every day since to apologize, tell him how I feel about him, and seem desperate by begging him just to answer, I've gotten no answer. I hadn't contacted him Tuesday until today (Friday) when I ended up just asking to have something back as I can tell he's done with me for good, and probably getting rid of stuff I gave him.
 Anyway, sorry for the long post. But basically I'm hitting a spiraling depression. I feel hopeless. I've been battling depression for as long as I can remember throughout my life. And every time, once it gets this bad, all I want to do is sleep, and I feel suicidal and do nothing but cry when I'm awake. I don't know what to do. Of course I'd never kill myself with a baby growing inside me, I just feel hopeless enough to not want to be around anymore.