Today I was upset because my husband has been sleeping in all day and never getting up to do anything.  I suggest getting up to go walk and to be healthy.  He insists on video games and sitting inside.  
 Long story short, we went out and got into an argument.  Like always, it seemed to be my fault that I was bringing up something about us not spending time enough because he is always choosing to be inside and that it isn't a great time to talk about.
 He decides to threaten and yell to the top of his lungs about jumping out of my car and in front of it just to prove a point.  I beg him not to and I quickly push the child locks and lock the door.  
 I keep telling him, "honey, stop please don't hurt yourself, we can go back home or whatever and talk about this. "
 He jumps out of my door and waves at people and yells "kidnap" and draws a lot of attention.  I constantly say "baby please come back in the car, stop this..."
 and then he runs back home.
 I am sick of being patient with him and listening to him and having him tell me I am wrong when as soon as I get off work or school I call him and head right home.  I am sick of him never apologizing.  He use to be a man who never raised his voice or hung up the phone and now he won't stop yelling and he won't stop hanging up.
 I know he lost his job and he is frustrated, but I don't think constantly yelling and taking it out on me and pulling these crazy stunts is a good way when all I am trying to do is be there and love him.
 i don't know.
 My friends and my family tell me to leave him for these past 3 years, and maybe I do need to do better for myself?
 He is erectile dysfunction.. but regardless.. i love him to death.  he is known to over react and be really irrational about things because he tends to victimize himself.
 his reason for not going to college is because his parents have no money.
his reason for not going later to college is because he is too tired.
his reason for being laid off all the time is because of his boss.
 I love him.  but when will he see his faults and man up and cuddle up to me and tell me he is sorry instead of me always holding him and listening and loving him.  I feel over stepped.  I know i've been wrong before but there are so many times he can shove how i have lost my temper and said things i didn't mean in my face.
 He isn't the same calm, soft, gentle man I fell in love with anymore.  
 i don't know who this person is anymore.
 I've had enough.
 Can anyone relate to this?  How a loved one just changes so much... to a point where i had to cry and accept that this may have to be it.