Sorry if I tag anything wrong, in advance. I am not very smart...
 Hello! I am a young lady with some worrying symptoms that are keeping me up at night. I will list them here because I am unsure of what the problem could be, but I will be as specific as possible. 
 I have been diagnosed in the past with ADD, ADHD, anxiety disorder, social anxiety, and insomnia.
 My balance started to be off a fair bit a few months back. Turns I made felt too sharp, I'd bump into things all the time and hurt myself -- doing things like standing felt forced, and I had to focus very hard on staying still and not swaying slightly. I eventually accepted it as a new part of myself -- I have many disorders that could cause it, anyway. Perhaps I was just stressed out.
 A month after the sudden onset balance issues, I had what is presumed to be a panic attack -- but for no reason. Nothing could have triggered it that I am aware of. I began to feel an onset of dread as if I were to die any moment, and any sudden movement made my lower body tingle uncomfortably. I felt extremely dizzy and couldn't concentrate on anything, and everything seemed as if to be in slow motion. I slowly slipped out of my state, but still felt off for the next few days -- my balance failed more, and I felt very numb.. in my brain. It was as if I weren't completely there, and focusing proved difficult.
 After a bit of worrying, I decided it may have been a panic attack. However, I've been experiencing new symptoms that worry me. I cannot watch videos without feeling dizzy, and I get very dizzy for no reason (as far as I know). When balancing on one leg, I will stay in the center for a moment and then suddenly I swerve to the right and, if I am not careful, I will fall over. In the night, I smell things -- mostly smelling like pesticide which then slowly fades out into a flower-y sweet lotion smell, and then disappears altogether. I see faint colors in my vision that aren't really there. 
 When people are talking to me, lately I forget what they said only a second after they're saying it or even while I'm replying and they are forced to remind me of the entire thing again no matter how much attention I am paying. I've had horrible headaches day in and day out and the only slight relief has been ibuprofen. I am generally lethargic and doing very little is still a hassle to me. No matter how much sleep I get, I feel so exhausted. My stomach always hurts after I eat and I have begun to start feeling nauseous every night, even going as far as puking and having to take medication to help.
 These are very far and wide symptoms and I am unsure of what it could be. There is no history of cancer in my family, but my aunt has epilepsy and gets motion sick easily, my grandmother, mother, and father all have diabetes, and my mother has high blood pressure. I was a premature child although I am unsure of how this could contribute (sorry if it doesn't!).  
 This is keeping me up at night way more than insomnia ever has. If anyone here has anything they could contribute I would really appreciate it. Thank you for reading.