I'm a professional woman with a great job which requires travel.  I have been divorced for 3 years.  I started dating shortly after my divorce was finalized.  I met this wonderful man and fell in love with him and we have done more fun things in a short amount of time than I had with my husband of 13 years.  
 However, the man I have been dating hates that I travel.  He is also a loner and has no real hobbies and when I'm gone, in my opinion, he's sort of lazy and doesn't do anything except worry about what I'm doing and who I'm having dinner with during my travel.  I've been thinking that he is just possessive and controlling.  Now I see that he really wants and needs to have someone to sleep with at night and wake up with in the morning...a normal life with a partner.  He has asked me to marry him and I said "not right now" but never said no.  He asked me to live with him because he loves me an wants a true partnership.  I finally see it through his eyes because he wants me to come home to him after a trip, etc.  We waste a lot of time and money because we have two separate homes. 
 So, I have "come around" and decided that it would be a good idea to move in with him and put balance into my life and actually make a commitment to him and plan a life together. We started looking at homes together.  He doesn't have any money to put into the new home, so it will be with my funds.  I'm a young 60 and he's an old 51.  I have the better job, 401K and insurance benefits.  He doesn't have insurance benefits or a 401K with his job. 
 I recently had my heart ripped out of my chest when I discovered that he has been seeing and sleeping with another woman - while I'm traveling.  I gently confronted him and told him of my discovery and he admitted it to me but said it "backfired" on him because he wasn't ready for that and he hopes he never sees the woman again.  
 I feel a deep remorse and I am blaming myself for traveling and not being here for him which sent him into the arms of another woman I guess.  I just can't believe anyone would do that if they truly are in love with someone.  Was this just a bad decision on his part?  Can I forgive him?  
 I would appreciate some advice.  I'm not thinking clearly and do not want to lose a man I love but I do not want to be miserable in my future either.  Of course, if we move in together, he said that I could keep my job....or get one without travel if I want to.  He said he reaps done of the benefits of my current travel job and if we lived together, it would be different. 
 What do you think?  Should I break away?  Am I missing red flags or does this guy really love me and just got tired of waiting around for me to commit to him? 
 Help.