We have a family friend who's father was diagnosed w/schizophrenia years ago (since then he has died). Our friend, over the last 5 years has grown increasingly "odd" and, telling us, in earnest, that he "talks to crystals" and "spends several hours a day communicating with the spirit world". This cuts into time that he has to work and earn a living at times. This guy was my husband's best friend- they talked all the time, but due to this big change in personality/mental health, my spouse can barely relate to his old friend-since he now talks mostly about what seems to be delusional stuff -spirit world, talking to crystals, aliens, etc. Our friend has studied to be a shaman so I know that in some circumstances, talking about some of those things may not signal mental illness-however, we feel like our friend is so immersed/obsessed with these new interests of this, that we feel like this may be a sign that something is seriously wrong. Our friend's family is not Native American either, again, makes his new interest seem more strange. He and his family only go to naturopathic (sp?) doctors and I'm afraid that because they don't believe in Western medicine, that he won't entertain going to "regular" doctor and getting on the meds that we believe he probably needs. The rest of his family, I think may be in denial about our friend. I think his wife may be depressed and has stayed in bed for the better part of the last 3 months. I'm thinking that maybe I can try to visit the wife at least and maybe she will open up and I can try to talk them into getting a mainstream docs help (if she recognizes something wrong), because our friend doesn't seem to realize that something is "off".. btw--I don't have a prob. with homeopathic medicine, so please don't be offended anyone! I just think if this guy needs pharmaceuticals that he may not be going to the right place and that scares me. Please offer any help/advice that you may have-our friend has a beautiful 5 yr old daughter and I worried, not for her safety, but that she is being isolated with her family and won't get to socialize like she should.