I know you guys are probably tierd of reading the question, is this schizophrenia? but I had somethings transpire that made me wonder. First off I know I am Bi-P Tolar I also am Deppressed. I am on 900 Lithium and 40 Prozac. Recently I was talking to my Dr about some "quirks" I have that people always call "crasy" or weird. She listened, never said if she thought it was anything, but then she prescribed me Risperdal 1 mg. She said it wasn't that strong just see if it helped. I went home to read about it and it said it was prescribed for Schiz. and or Autism violence. So that made me wonder and here I am, so here goes what I go through. First off I often find my self questioning if I am really here, I can't explain it I know it doesnt make sense but it is a very real concern at the time. I also constantly suspect that at any minute someone is going to burst into my home and hurt me. I can't use the rest room untill I have made sure no one is in the bath tub behind the shower curtain, I even look in the medicine cabinet! Who could fit in there?! The worst part is that I try to tell myself no one is there but I don't believe it. The most unsafe things that happen are, when I am driving my car I am always terrified that the car behind me is following me because they are mad at me for something. And god forbid a car drive up next to me in the next lane of traffic, because this obviously means that they want to race. I also often feel that when I walk into a store or room that everyone is looking at me and disapointed in what they see. Or as if they are following me around the store to see if I stole something. These feelings come and go, one minute I am fine, the next BOOM I am no longer in control of my reasoning. As we speak I heard a noise and had to jump away from my computer because I knew it was someone in my closet trying to get out. I am pretty functional on a daily basis, but I have just learned to live with this I guess.I am just so tierd of feeling hated and scared. Please, any insight?