My husband has always put his family before me, especially his mother, even though he's never even been close with her and they've always fought like cats and dogs. Ever since I met her she has said horrible and disgusting comments to me for no good reason, and every single time I've ignored it, despite giving me health problems from stress as I don't cope well with it. She's straight out told me that my Mother is a bad Mother because she divorced my biological Father who at the time was an alcoholic and would come home drunk and verbally abuse her, even with me standing there as a 5 year old watching. And that she shouldn't have worked and stayed home and raised my sister and I instead, which was impossible considering she was a SINGLE Mother! She rolled her eyes, shook her head and muttered criticism under her breath when I told her my Father had just remarried. My husband and I are strong Christians, and his mother claims she is a Christian also, she's even gone to Bible college and qualified as a pastor yet she still utters this abuse and even about her own family. As soon as she walks in the door she's ranting about someone else behind their back. My husband has never said a word to his mother throughout all of this abuse unless I go into a total meltdown from stress and even then he barely says a word to her. Even when he hears her saying these things to me he stays silent, he's even joined in once before. She raised hell when we moved into a house together before we were married which we are completely entitled to do considering I was 18 and he was 20. She raised hell again when we announced our engagement and accused us of not acting like Christians and fooling around before marriage which she has no proof of it ever occurring, which is nothing to do with her anyway, again we are adults and it's our faith. She made a scene at our wedding, and then when someone brought up us having children in the future she started ranting under her breath and saying no we won't be having children any time soon (like that's not our choice!). And the most recent of all, our beautiful puppy who was 6 months old when she recently passed away from a routine desexing (still don't know the cause), whom I was extremely close with and I have gone into depression since this happened (if you're not a dog lover you wouldn't understand), it's been two months and the day it happened she text my husband and made it clear she only had regards for him, and her and the rest of his family have continually told us to get over it, move on and 'just get another one' despite seeing how much pain I'm in. A lot of things have gone on in my life prior to this (who hasn't gone through stuff) has caused depression and this just fuelled the fire. I've been having suicidal thoughts and my husband knows this, a couple of days ago his family came over and told us both again to get over it, move on and his mother said 'just get another one' and kept adding her narky, smart comments in here and there to try and get a rise out of me. When I told her it's not that simple and I was clearly upset, she completely ignored me and kept talking crap as if our puppy was just an insect stuck to the bottom of her shoe. All the while my husband sat there and let me take all 4 people's horrible comments in after I've just told him I've been thinking of ending my own life. Then he couldn't understand why I was on the phone for an hour to lifeline trying to talk myself out of getting in the car and doing something harmful, and he got angry at me for it. We were meant to be spending Christmas there and I said I don't think I can do it as I'm not in a stable state right now and he said "well don't go then" while he still has every intention of going and leaving me alone on Christmas. He refuses to stand up for me or himself to his family, even if they're saying horrible things to him and when I stick up for him (as I always do, and always will do) he yells at me for defending him. He knows if my family ever treat him like this I'd drop everything and defend him in a heart beat, but I don't and have never received the same treatment. The vows he said to me on our wedding day 2 months ago haven't been practiced when it comes to defending and protecting me. I just don't understand how he can't stand up and say leave my wife alone, she's in a very fragile state. He can't even say it in a nice way and he's been deeply affected by our puppies passing also. 
 Anyone who can help, I deeply appreciate it as I'm lost for what to do, talking doesn't help as I've tried that a lot over the past two years. And I'm sorry it's long. I'm also not thinking of a divorce or break up, this was just the closest category. Thank you.