My wife and I have been arguing for some time over behavior she engaged in with her brother and I would like an independent assessment.  There are five children in my wife's family, 3 boys and 2 girls.  My wife and her youngest brother have always been very close and are only one year difference in age.  The brother in question is the third child of the family and my wife is the oldest girl and fourth child.  They have always been affectionate and at family gatherings have preferred to spend time together.  
 45 days after we were married her brother came to visit in our small 2 bedroom apartment that shared one bath in a common hallway.  After showering one evening my wife exited the bath wearing only a towel wrapped around her waist.  She and her brother had a conversation of several minutes before she came into our bedroom where I was at the time.  My wife had always stated that she was a very modest person and I was shocked at this behavior.  A big argument ensued where I claimed this was inappropriate and clearly behavior that differed from what she had represented herself to be.  She claimed I was simply over reacting, but agreed not to do this again.  About three years later we were visiting her family.  Her brother's girl friend was scheduled for a lumpectomy.  My wife previously had a lumpectomy and offered to show the girl her breast scar to reduce her anxiety.  She then went into a bedroom to show her breast to the girl.  It is unclear if her brother was invited into the room by my wife or walked in, either way he was there.  My wife has alternately stated he simply walked in or she may have invited him in.  As this was happening, I was in the same house but only learned of the event months later.  Another argument ensued and my wife said I was again over reacting, that she was trying to help them out.  Orignally she told me that she knew this would hurt our relationship but really wanted to help them out.  Recently she told me that really this was such an insignificant event that she didn't even think of me or my reaction.  I don't know why the change in her reported thinking.
 We have argued about this for a long time as I cannot understand the behavior.  About 10 years after this "scar" event, the youngest sister told my wife that she and the brother in question had had expereimented with sex when they were in their teens.  The story was related to one of the older brothers, a series of conversations between the 4 siblngs ensued (I was never a part of any conversations) and the sister recanted her story.  During this time we had two young girls of our own who have been alone with the brother on several occassions before I learned of the reported sexual relationship between the brother and the youngest sister.  I became even more upset and demanded that my wife tel our girls about this and make sure they were never alone with her brother in the future.  My wife has told our girls the story and also told them that her sister is prone to making dramatic statements for effect.  The generalfeeling now by my wife and girls now is that this is a sister problem and the brother probably did nothing wrong.
 My wife continues to tell me that I have over reacted, that nothing abnormal has happened between her and her brother and that I have no basis for being angry and upset.  Furthermore, that my reaction is damaging our relationship.  We have a difference of opinion as to what is acceptable behavior, who is the offended party and therefore who is damaging the relationship.  My feeling is that even if this is behavior she finds acceptable, I do not, that my feelings should carry greater weight than her brother's and out of respect for our marriage she should modify her behavior.
 I understand these are complex issues and hard to judge as a third party with limited data coming from one party's perspective.  None the less, assuming my facts are generally correct, have I over reacted?  Is this normal behavior between adult siblings aged 30- 35?