Hi I'm a 28yr old girl. I've been very sick lately as I have an underactive thyroid. Doctors aren't being very helpful and my grandparents aren't very understanding.
 Well, I've had to leave my job last year as I felt too unwell to keep working an 8am to 4pm job full-time. I pretty much left without saying why I took redundancy but that was what I had in mind anyway.
 Eventually my doctor diagnosed me properly and I've been taking medication since May this year. It hasn't been easy and although I've felt well initially, now I feel even worse. My medication has been increased due to blood tests coming back abnormal and I haven't been taking my medication as I know the stronger the dose the worse I'll feel.
 Things were slowly getting better for a bit - I had a phone call from the practice manager at my doctor's surgery and she thinks my illness should be looked into more. Because she has no clinical experience or knowledge she couldn't refer me herself so I have to go through a doctor at the surgery to do that. I'm not very firm or assertive so this is a huge ask of me.
 Because the doctors weren't willing to order a specific blood test for me due to cost, I went to the expense of paying for a private blood test to be done. If they weren't going to do it what other choice did I have? It wasn't cheap either, and I knew the best way of going about it was for my Jobseeker's Allowance to make up for the huge cost. The test cost £83.20 and I get over £70 in Jobseeker's Allowance so I wouldn't miss the leftover £10 or so.
 Unfortunately my claim for Jobseeker's Allowance was closed off because I wasn't going to be able to come in for the first meeting. The reason for this was because my boyfriend and I went away on holiday at quite a short notice and my meeting was when I was on holiday. I tried to get through to the main office and although the operator put me through I was then cut off.
I tried calling them again and all I had on the other end was silence. I thought if I called them again when I was away it should still be ok. So I called them a few hours before my meeting time and I still couldn't get through.
 I was really upset with my boyfriend over this because he was the one who was so keen on the idea for us to go away for a bit. I'm not really an angry person as I keep it pent up inside. But today I got extremely angry and I started to throw and break things all over the flat because I had to start making a new Jobseeker's claim all over again. It might sound petty to some people for me to get angry over something like this but I was really trying to prove to people that I'm not someone who's lazy and doesn't want to find a job. So for my claim to be closed and gotten rid of really upset me. Does that make sense? I don't think it does to me now since I made a fool out of myself by crying on the bus stop on the way home.
 Thanks for any advice. I really want someone to talk to right now.