Hello all, I really need advice on what to do with myself because lately I've been feeling like ****. 
 My father is very strict, ever since I started kindergarten. My childhood was hell and I think this is where my problems kick in. I was just starting to learn the alphabets as any child should when attending school and my father would get really angry when i wrote the letters wrong or not perfect enough. If I continued writing it wrong things escalated to the point where he would whip me with his belt. Mind you I was only a child STILL learning the alphabets. Skip over that school year towards 1st grade where I "lied" to my father about a boy throwing a rock at my head during recess. And this is where I was severely  punished, as in whipped for a good 20 min. So during recess I was tired from running around and decided to lean up against the building, and I started dosing off. Next thing I knew I was hit in the head with a rock, thrown by a kid next to me. I went to tell the Aid ( person responsible for looking after us little ones) and she took him to the office. I also went to the nurses office and sat there for a good hour then went to class and later, home. I told my father what happened and he went to the school to talk to the nurse who took care of me. The nurse who helped me was not working at the time and after my dad couldn't find her we left for home. I was whipped. That's right whipped because my father didn't believe his own son that another kid threw a rock at my head. So after that incident I started to lie about things to avoid being hit. Yes I know it's supposed to be the other way around, but given the circumstances and the pain I went through I didn't care. I just wanted to avoid getting beat by my father because I was terrified of him. 
 Fast forwards to elementary and middle school. Same things happen. If I didn't get anything above a B grade I was ridiculed as being a retard, lazy, slacker, didn't try hard enough, didn't study hard enough, or was plain to stupid to do anything.  And when grades came in the mail, you can be sure I was scared as hell. 
High school.. I thought it's be over since I was getting older, I couldn't be more wrong. The beatings continued for every little mistake I made, for every test I failed from test anxiety and the thought of what would happen to me if my father saw how bad I did. Finally, senior year kicked in and the beatings stopped. But for all that I've endured I've found myself to be more unsocially active and  more depressed to the point where I don't care anymore. There were some days where I did run out of the house during a beating and stay with a relative, but that didn't change the fact of how much I resent being born and my father. I recently got suspended from college for having a low gpa. No I don't drink, smoke, or go to parties. As I am very unsocial and quite reserved. The problem was anxiety and fear. Yes I was away from home but that feeling of being beaten was still with me.i have trouble sleeping because I dream of being beaten and chased by my dad and then wake up in the middle of the night. And once I wake up, it's hard to fall back asleep. I wake up crying some nights because of this. This affected me emotionally, physically, and mentally. I had trouble staying awake in class and because of my depression I stopped going to some classes and stayed locked up in my room. 
 Since that year of college ended I've been home. And since I've been home my father has called me a waste of space, time, and money. I'm just a money pit, a loser, and ungrateful. I've been trying to look for a job but no one in the area is boring me because I have zero work experience. I did receive a job interview, but they never called back and when I told my father about it he just pointed at me and said a failure will never get anything in life and you are a failure. 
 If your wondering where mom is in the story she's there, she protected me during some of the beatings.
 I would really appreciate help.