I have been dating my boyfriend for 2 years now and through our entire relationship he has been battling for custody with a woman who is an addict. To make things worse last February the woman overdosed and passed away. Then to make things even worse now he is fighting for custody with his late wife's sister because of the amount of lies and manipulation of the courts his late wife made before her death. They come every other weekend at this moment and have been here all winter break long. Ok.. There is a 14 year old girl and a 5 year old girl who I love very much involved in this mess. They are both in therapy! The 14 year old seems to be getting back into the swing of things. The 5 year old on the other hand is out of everybody's control. We did the whole talking and trying to get how she feels phase...we got nothing. She sits and stares at the therapist and refuses to talk. She does however like to tell perfect strangers that "my mom is dead". We have tried everything to get her stop and talk about it... Still she won't talk. So we have stopped trying to get her to talk, maybe that will help, giving her space. NO! Now it's refusing to eat, talking back, cursing, not listening, screaming when she doesn't get her way, almost torchering her sister, refuses to go to bed, lying, tantrums etc. She won't stay in time out, we had to take the TV out of her room because she kept turning it back on, NO is her favorite word now. It's almost like she's running this house now. Her father, my boyfriend has gotten to the point of   " maybe it's time for spankings " but due to court and everything he's scared to do so because it might jeopardize custody. He has been fighting so hard for these girls and I'm starting to see something in him change, he's almost hopeless now. So, through all of this we have for the most part kept our calm until last night. Dinner, wouldn't eat, day at the table for 2 hours then we tried to send her to bed.... All out war! He had to pick her up and put her in her room and hold the door shut because she was trying to hit him and kick him, throwing stuff everywhere, even food. She broke lamps, and picture frames ect. We just don't know what to do next! Any advice helps!!!