I've never been on a site to talk about my depression. I just need help. I'm a 23 year old female living with severe depression and anxiety. I'm afraid I've gone so down there's no way out this pit. I've had depression ever since I was a little girl. My mom had it and always took it out on my brother and I. There was just constant saddness, yelling, and negativity in my home. My mom is a single parent because my dad left us when mom was prego. So I understand the stress she had. Her illness and stress just gave her the worst outlook on life. I could be happy about something at school and she either wouldn't say anything or would change the subject. I always felt alone. I tried so hard to get her attention, but all I did was annoy her. When I was 10 she got into Wicca. She say's she did a spell for love. Two weeks later my mom has a boyfriend and he quickly moves in. Then there was marriage and his two teenage boys who came to live with us. If I thought I was aline then I had another thing coming. My brother started doing drugs and thats when I started getting molested by my brother and step brother. I never told my mom because I gave up looking for her love. Well growing up as a teen I was bullied a lot. I was popular and boys liked me so peiple made rumors that I was a *****. I was a virgin. At 16 I fell in love with a older guy who showed me affection like I've never had. He played me the whole time and hated me for my illness. Made me get an abortion...well brainwashed really. He manipulated me a lot. He started only seeing me for sex. My depression got terrible. Couldn't leave my house for weeks. After 4 years he told me to stay out his life. I was always suicidal, but this time it was worst. Since then I've had substance issues and I've been very insecure. I hate myself and cant stand the site of me in a mirror. People tell me I'm pretty, but I feel so gross. I cant find a reason to live. I dont understand why im here. Everyone has either ignored, abused, or used me. I feel so disgusted by myself I never want to leave my house. I'm losing my friends and family. My escape a couple years ago was church. But after my peeping tom tried to kidnap me in my backyard i stopped going. My friends at church thought i was looking for attention. So i have no church and all my friends use substances. I havent had a job in over a year due to my depression. I feel cursed. Every time someone says im pretty i want to cut my face and body up. I hate to be looked at and hate the skin im in. I cant stop having flash backs from being molested and i have no one to help me. Ive had close to 4-5 panic attacks a week. Doctors wont give me meds because they think ill abuse them. The therapist i had never talked so i felt stupid to cry and embarrassed. I pray but things just get worst. I didnt ask to be here and this is the life i have to have? I dont understand why i cant get better. Why i cant move on and not be afraid to trust or love. I want to work go to school become successful but its all a dream. Every day i think about suicide. But i dont want to feel pain. Ive done everything exercise, read, everything. I even used to work in a mental health care facility helping others. I know the answers but cant pull myself up. I want to go to a hospital again but my dr treated me like ****. Kept telling me how stupid i was. He said i was to young to not help myself. Then a lady therapist told me i was dramatic and caused my own problems. Patients would say i was to pretty to be sad and i was a lier. Who wants to be on the suicide unit sleeping in a room with a stranger and having everyone know your depressed?  My whole life people have just hated me. I hate me too. More than anyone. I just wish i could leave this place. But i dont want to go and have people say i did it for attention.