Ive never done this kind ofthing...put my emotions and feelings out there for people to see but im getting scared that if i hold it in anymore ill do something ill regret. Im 26 yrs old and no where near where i thought id be in life, i have a mediocre job live with my parents and 3 yr old daughter. Im a single parent her father is nowhere to be found and has never been around. Ive had anxiety and depression for as long as i can remember. As a child i was sexually abused on several occasions by multiple people my dad was never around and when he was i was never doing anything right. Ive carried the feeling of worthlessness my entire life and cant get rid of it. I look at my life and i see others that are my age or even younger than me and theyre so much farther and better off than i am. I cant talk to anyone about how i feel because they brush it off and tell me im being silly. I see people happy and loving their life and themselves and i am so jealous of them. I cant stand what i see in the mirror and i hate that im such a failure. I just wish i knew how to be happy, im on wellbutrin xl and celexa which neither are working. I mostly just want to lay in bed and cry i don't want to be around people but at the same time i hate being so lonely. I have no friends and when i try to put myself out there people reject me, i cant figure out whats wrong with me. I sit at work and listen to the other girls making plans to do things together and never get invited even tho im sitting in the same room as them. I get so sad when i see people hanging out with friends laughing and having fun and im stuck at the house with nobody to talk to and nothing to do. I cry when i think about where i am in life and where others are. I feel like such a disappointment to my family, right now i dont even have a car i have to get rides everywhere, i act like it doesn't bother me but im so incredibly embarrassed. My dad hasnt talked to me in 6mo, but hes so incredibly involved in my half brothers life he never misses anything when it comes to him but yet he cant even remember what year i was born. My half brother gets everything handed to him and i cant even get a phone call seeing how me and my daughter are doing. I feel so hopeless and alone like no matter how hard i try ill never be good enough, ill never accomplish anything and ill be a disappointment to my daughter as she grows up. I dont know how to stop feeling like this people tell me its all in my head and i need to get over it. Im starting to believe that im beyond help because no matter what i do or medication im on i cant stop feeling like this. I feel like im a hopeless case and nothing and nobody can help me.