Hi, as the title says i just need to get some stuff out. Im very stressed out and upset. My fiance who ive been with going on 6 years now, and i are going to be moving from NY to FL in july. Ive been in NY since i was 1 so idk anything else. Im scared and im stressed and theres a million things going through my head right now. On top of that i dont see him as often as i would like and its starting to get to me. Ive very depressed and upset and the slightest thing that anyone says to me lately i wind up in tears. I hate this. I miss him more than i can every say and love him more then i can say. I have not told my family yet that we are moving bc idk how to right now. We are a very close family and im scared of breaking their hearts and i also just dont wanna have to hear abiut it. Im 20 will be 21 in september but as i said we have been together going on 6 years and engaged 2 1/2 so i know its time that we start out lives together. We have also been trying for a baby for nearly 2 years now and unfortunately i have oroblems with my ovaries that causes me to not ovulate all that often so thts on my mind to. And every month that i find out im not pregnant it hurts even more. Im ready to give up on everything. Im tired of being upset and not being with him and being stresse out about wht my family will think and tht they will judge me as they can be very harsh at times if u dont go along with wht they believe so thats why im also scare to tell them. Idk what to do. I love him so much and im going to be with him regardless of what they think it just hurts knowing that your family is hurtful an harsh if they dot believe in what you are doing. Ive seen them do it to several family memebers and no longer speak to them due to situations thy they didnt agree with. I thought that ur famoly is the one who will always hae ur back....apparently not. Im just upset and lonely and stresse out and idk what else to do anymore. I truly cant take anymore or anything else at this point. :'(