My husband and I have been married for almost 5 years. He has a daughter from a previous relationship (they were never married) and they had my step-daughter very young (late teens). My step-daughters mother is a real piece of work. She has made a career out of having babies and collecting child support. My step-daughter just turned 6 and her mother is only 24 and she has 3 children by 3 different men. She married the second child's father and is still legally married to him even though she has moved in with a new guy and his family and has had a child by him. She does not work, does not pay rent since they live with the newest baby daddy's family and she has every government assistance there is. She does not want my husband to have anything to do with his daughter nor does she try to make things easy. She believes we should pay for everything especially travel expenses to get my step daughter to and from our houses (we live in different states). However, and this may be wrong of me, my biggest fear is that she will keep coming after us for an increase in child support. My husband is military so as he ranks up I know she will be making sure she is getting the most she can. She does not even take care of her kids because she doesn't have them most of the time and she is always getting a new tattoo or piercing (nothing against them but if you do not have a job how are you affording them?). So my question is, is there a way to have child support court ordered at a maximum amount? So my step daughters mom cannot raise it and keep taking us to court? How do you ladies emotionally deal with all of the legal stuff and knowing that you and your husband are working 40+ hours a week while your child together is in daycare 10 hours a day 5 days a week so you can work and the baby mama gets to sit at home getting government assistance not having to work and collecting bigger paychecks because your husband works hard and excels at his job? I am having a hard time and it is putting a wedge in my marriage.