My husband and I have been married for 16 years. He has always accused me of dating coworkers and this has never been true. This caused me to stop telling him about anything at work or sharing anything period because it was always held against me.  A regular story I thought we could laugh about turned into him accusing me of dating someone in the story. In 2009 I found out that he had been talking to a female coworker on the phone for extended periods of time. He told me that they were just talking as friends. She calls me attempting to confirm what he said. I asked him and her to not speak on the phone anymore because I did not feel like that was appropriate and I did not approve. in 2012 I found out that he had been talking to her on the phone again and her husband saw them eating lunch together and confronted them.  Her husband called me to tell me about it and then later called me to apologize for involving me in their foolishness because he had not been available to support his wife emotionally (which is where my husband came in). I realize that they had come to rely on each other for emotional support. She had the nerve to write me a letter saying she's not a home wrecker and they are only friends... I confronted him once again and he begged for forgiveness and said it ("the daily phone conversations") wouldn't happen again. Just 5 weeks ago,  I found out they had been on the phone together again (daily).  I had been trying to move past the last time and I had stopped watching him so closely but this is what happens when I stop. I left for 3 weeks and just came back.  He claims that he understands now why he was doing this and blames his childhood and his parents and his fear of being alone.He claims that this time is different and he really wants to change.  He went and had one counseling session with our Minister but he is STILL accusing me of cheating with a coworker.. the same one from 2008 which is totally made up! I feel emotionally abused because he is falsely accusing me. I have never done anything to brake trust in our relationship but I'm always the one trying to defend myself. How can I try to rebuild trust with him if he is still accusing me of something he made up.  It's like the blame game. .. only I haven't done anything!