Dear all, I hope anyone who is reading this can help me to help my beloved bf of 7 years go through this difficult time in his life.
 In June 2012, my bf was diagnosed with paranoia. This was first identified after he quitted his job due to stress. Upon leaving his job, he went into a state of paranoia where he will constantly think that someone is watching him or trying to harm him or his loved ones. He became very protective over some of us whom he believed will be in danger because of our relationship with him. We took him to a psychiatrist and he was given 1mg ripserdal for 8 to 10 months. He was later taken off the medication as he got better 4 months into the medication. He started looking for jobs and went for interviews. However, he was not able to secure job offers and about 4 months ago, signs of relapse became more apparent as days go by. This time round, his condition seems to be worse than before. Apart from being suspisious of people watching over him, he kind of lost trust for his friends, family members and even me. He withdrew himselves from social acitvities and stop looking for a job. His low mood could be due to a long period of time being jobless and not getting any positive news on job hunting. He went into low confidence and self-esteem. While he just want to lead a very simple life he mentioned, "they" don't even allow him. We are unsure who is the "They" he refers to. Few days ago, he initiated a break-up with me and claimed that he no longer trust me and the trust is gone. I was heart-broken that he now sees me as someone from the other side. I had stood by him but he sees me as a person with hidden agenda. He told his family as well, he is unsure about them too. There were times he giggles and we were so worried if he has gone out of his mind, which we are pretty sure he has not. He is thinking of something funny so that he feels better we felt. I was all ready to stood by him as soon as he gets out of this ordeal. No matter how long it would be, I'm prepared to be by his side but it seems like he doesn't let me to now. We sent him back to the doctor and doctor is giving him double dosage of rthe same medicine.
 I hope anyone of you who has friends, loved one or came across such situation, share with me your thoughts and any helpful advice. Some told me he just want me to leave him as he knew that he will not recover, while some told me he is not in a state of mind he can think and all this "trust" issue is like a hallucination he is encountering. Whaterver it is, I just want to help him get better. If not for this, we would have been preparing for our wedding next year maybe. I blame no one and I hope and have faith, one day, he will trust me again.
 Please help.