He just wanted to escape. He was so sick of it all. The way he felt, it just wasn’t fair. Surrounded by friends and family, but still he felt alone. Nobody understands. Nobody gets him. And he couldn’t tell anyone how he felt because he didn’t want to hurt them. His pain, his own problems, they should only be his. His burden, not others. He didn’t want to cause any more pain to others. So, he would wipe his tears after crying into a pillow, smothering the sound of miserable being. He would walk downstairs and greet his parents and sister with a broken smile.
 But now, it was getting too hard to fake it. He sometimes couldn’t even hold back his pain, his sadness, and hot tears would form in his eyes and his eyebrows would furrow, trying to hide deeper in its grave. He wanted to dig deeper. He felt smothered by his self, his own body, his skin. He was caged in. He wanted to breathe, but all he got was poison that filled his lungs and ached his heart. So he cut. He wanted to break free. He would watch as the blood flowed over his arms and down to his lap. The warm rush of blood made him feel better. But even that feeling passed, and for the next weeks he would have to hide the cuts, waiting for the scars to fade. That too would end up hurting others around him, so he couldn’t do that either.
He used to be able to drink and let that feeling numb the rest. But now, he was on medication and couldn’t drink while on the meds. So again, he felt cornered. He hated his life. This angered him, since he knew he had all the great things in his life. He was aware of all that, and that he had a promising future, but when that feeling sinks in, nothing matters. And he sinks with it. He lives his life as if waking up and living each day is like holding his breathe, and on the inside he’s helplessly screaming for air. Only when he sleeps does he feel like he can breathe. So he goes through each day just trying to survive, to get by, to finally when he can sleep. But the next day comes so fast. And he wakes up hating the fact that he woke up.
 He wishes he could die, that he could slip away and not have to feel like this anymore. But, he knew that suicide would hurt others more and pretty much pass over the pain to others, to people he loved. So, that was out of the question. So again, he came to a dead end. And he feels like every day, he’s just staring at that dead end that quickly is becoming an abyss. He wants to slip into the abyss, to walk into the dark. He wants to be engulfed by the dark, to feel the shadows and darkness suffocate any light left, any hope left in his body. But he couldn’t step in. So every day, as life tortures him, he wishes for the abyss to come to him. He would gladly accept it. But the abyss was a sick thing. It would toy with him, taking a step towards him then taking two steps  back. It was a life boat that as he swam with all his might in the heart of the storm, would disappear, a mirage. So he keeps swimming, but he doesn’t know how much longer he can stand it. His body was aching, his lungs were on fire, his heart was weak. He didn’t even know where he was swimming to. He was just aimlessly kicking his legs. One day, he knew that he would lose, and as the waves would swallow him, he would swallow the waters. He would feel that suffocating, frantic, helpless feeling as the water would enter his lungs and he would actually gasp and kick, actually fighting for his life. Why? It was so ironic. But he knew he would. Still, he would beg that he would lose the fight and that he would finally be shrouded in darkness. Finally, he would have escaped it all. The pain, the suffering, the aches, all would lessen to nothing. He would finally be numb. An endless sleep, where he could finally breathe and finally scream. He would let out a bloodcurdling cry and collapse, his throat throbbing and his eyes turning red as tears swelled out of his eyes and flowed down his face. His fists would finally unclench and he would lie at the bed of night in eternal sleep.