Hello, I just need advise pretty much to something that i am very aware of...I dont know if what im in is simply just an abusive relationship or if my partner actually has some type of personality disorder. So i met the father of my child 2 years ago. Like in every relationship it started off great he was very sweet and attentive...We were together all the time..but to get to the point a couple of months later i noticed his unexplainable jealousy started..his name calling and insults..i was only 19 when i met him so i was pretty naive even now i still admit i am since im still allowing this behavior to continue..but almost a year ago we moved in together..thats when things went terribly wrong..thats where physical and verbal abuse ocurred. I kept on saying i was gonna leave him but somehow with his sweet talk he always convinced me to stay. 6 months after i moved in i was pregnant. I was in no plan of having a child at that time but he had been insistent that he wanted a child...4 months after i had my child i left him and moved with my mother.. I left because he is a very abusive person..hes controlling demanding impulsive,mean..EVERYTHING. but heres the twist...somehow im still dealing with his bull****..ONE moment he LOVES me cnt live without me anything to please me..nd 2 minutes later sumthing clicks in  him either i said the wrong damn thing or he thought i said sumthing...he blames me of cheating of being bad..of lying of not loving him..of wishing him the worst...I get home from work he says who did i see where did i go after work..im sleeping at home he accuses me of being out..I never hang out with friends or family..he dislike everyone i associate or have associated with...He constantly puts me down..HEs thrown coffee on me twice..once it ws really hot..another time he through a plate of food at my face.. just like a week ago he threw coffee at my car twice in one day...nd he broke the passenger window of my car...with my child in it..that part i noe he didnt do on purpose but he still did it if he knew how to handle his anger that would have never happened..I just know this is affecting me terribly health wise..i barely eat..smoking cigarretes more than usual im sleep deprived sad nd depressed..Im sick of living like this that is why i started searching the internet for answers it was a thought that had already crossed my mind about if he had some type of mental issue...i dnt noe what else could explain the irrational and crazy behavior he displays time and time again..im starting to feel a little out of control myself..all i want is some peace of mind and quality time with my son!!!?? Any feedback people??please....