My husband and I have been together for 5 yrs. we got involved too young and I think we rushed things. With just a month of dating he moved in with me and haven't left since. This is my first relationship and first love. We were fine before we got married, soon after all the problems started. I didn't want to get married, since to me marriage is a very serious step and we have only been together for a year. He didn't even proposed to me, his mother said they were getting deported that if I really love him I would help him out. I felt pressured but I did it anyway. A year after he had an affair with a co worker and used to blame me for his lack of success because I have not given him his green card yet. Anyway I filed for divorce and I was fed up with the way he treated me but he came back and apologized and we gave it another go.
 A few months ago he started saying how his love went away and that he wasn't happy with me cuz I don't support him or make him improve his life (still haven't given him his papers) but I also found out that he has being having an emotional affair with another co worker. I'm just tired of being treated like I'm just a means to an end. 
 I love him but I can't let someone just walk all over  me and lie to my face all the time. So I told him is better of if we get a divorce. Then he comes back saying how he loves me and what to save our marriage but whenever I want to talk about our relationship or what happened, he gets agrivated and tells me to move on and that he doesn't want to talk about it that I'm just nagging him. He wants me to not talk about the issues and act as if nothing happened. 
 I can't live a lie, even though he says he loves me I don't feel it anymore. I feel he's lying when he says he loves me. The guy I felt in love with is not this man who looks at me with disdain and pity. I tell him it doesn't feel the same and he just disregard me saying I'm too emotional 
 Logically I know this relationship is one sided, I'm the only one trying and I'm the only one in love. But if I'm aware of this why am I still holding on?  Why can't i seem to let go? He has this hold on me and he knows it and use it to play mind games. I just want to be able to look myself in the mirror and like the person I see. He makes me feel so small and unlovable. I'm tired of crying, my heart can't take it anymore.