I have a 3 year old son who is at times out of control. He can be the sweetest little man ever. He loves to snuggle. But when something don't go his way he freaks out. He will start hitting and kicking whatever made him mad. He screams at the top of his lungs...it's not a cry it's a scream. When I give him a time-out in his room he destroys everything in there. Throws his toys against the wall, kicks the wall, and screams. He is very violent. He always wants to fight or shoot something. I don't believe in guns but he uses anything that's shaped like a gun and pretends to shoot me in the face when he's mad. He is very mean to other kids. He does not get along with his 8 year old sister at all. When she's playing he will walk by and knock her toys on the floor or hit her. He throws tantrums when it's time to eat. It will take him up to an hour to eat dinner. His worst time is nap time. He has been taking a nap everyday of his life at noon. I put him in his bed and if takes him at least and hour of screaming at the top of his lungs before he finally falls asleep. He also does this a night time. We start the bedtime routine at 8 pm. and he doesn't fall asleep until at least 11 pm. He also wakes up in the middle of the night with night terrors. He has never slept through the night. He has been a  very hard to deal with kid since he was born. Nothing like my daughter. On the other hand he can be really awesome. He learned to ride his bike with no training wheels at 2 years old. He has been a fast learner as long as it's something he's interested in. When I try to work with him on numbers or something he will do it until he messes up and then he's mad and won't even try. His dad has severe ADHD so I don't know if that has anything to do with this. I'm just at my wits end. I want to be able to enjoy the days with hm. But it's seems like there's just been more bad than good. He is compulsive and he lies and he hurts people who love him. I don't know what to do.No one is the family can handle him so I never get a break. I want to start him in preschool but am scared of what might happen. I've read tons of books and tried all types of dicipline but nothing seems to be working. If as a last resort I threaten to spank if he gets out of bed again he tells me he wants a spanking. I don't understand what's going on with him. I love him dearly and just want my son back. What should I do?