I am so fed up with this odious woman trying to control my friend's life. My friend's mother monitors her closely and gives her hell when she's back past 10, claiming "you keep me up nights when you aren't home on time," even when she calls and says in advance she'll be late. This happens on a weekly basis because my friend is out late attending--GASP--a Christian group on campus.
 My friend is a 20-year-old woman who goes to university full time, works two jobs, and commutes; all her parents provide is a roof. She's passionate about helping others; she wants to go away on a community service program for a year after graduation. Her mother doesn't want her to leave for so long.
 Once she lied about going to a writer's group with a friend her parents didn't approve of; when they found out, they took the wheel off the car my friend legally owns, preventing her from leaving the house.
 My friend's 18-year-old sister has it even worse. She's license-less because her parents won't pay for driver's ed or take her practice driving, effectively confining her to the house except when they're willing to give her a ride. She's been deprived of a normal high school life, unable to stay after school for many activities.
 The mother's a deadbeat who's made nothing of her life thus far. Even though the family's in financial difficulty she refuses to look for work because she spends a few hours every week volunteering with her church. Her church is badly in need of volunteers, yes; however, she could easily afford to work and keep volunteering. She's alienated my friend's grandmother, who has proven to be my friend's only supportive family member. We've all speculated the mother is depressed and giving her daughter the same kind of treatment she received as a girl-- that is, she had a smother who didn't even want her leaving to get married.
 My friend can't afford to move out of the house and pay her tuition, so she doesn't have a lot of options. Her mother desperately needs therapy, but she'd be unwilling and couldn't afford it anyway.
 Any suggestions would be awesome.