In response to all of your replies, I will attempt to answer all questions collectively in the paragraph.  I should start by saying that I do not work at a place where this behavior is acceptable, tolerated, or expected.  In the 5 years I have worked there it is the first case of this sort.  It is very upsetting because this is something that normally would not be tolerated and they keep giving this person another chance.  The person keeps lying when confronted about his sexual inappropriate behavior with numerous employees.  They told him that if he did anything else he would be moved elsewhere.  He has done a few more things and I am waiting to see if they keep their word.  Throughout my life, I have purposefully avoided working at places where they would treat any kind of current sexual offenders because they remind me of all that has happened to me that I try to forget.  My sexual abuse in the past is something that I do not even speak of anymore.  I tried counseling ,to some extent, which was very painful and thought that I was past all of this.  I never want to talk about any of it again and feel that is the best approach to moving on.  I know that all of you think that I should go to counseling but  counseling severely depresses me.  I live alone and do not have many people to talk to when dealing with these issues.  In past experience, I went to counseling for an hours per week and had no support system after that. At one point, I feel I wanted to go to counseling to deal with some extensive grief and loss issues but found that because I am single with no children and working I would have to pay an amount I could never afford.  I looked up online counseling which was said to be free online to charge anywhere from 1.50 to 4 dollars per minute.  Not only can not I not financially afford counseling but I also do not think that my mental health and physical health can afford to go through counseling.  I am just trying to stay strong and survive through all that has happened throughout my life.  However, as I said before this issues at work is bring up a lot of emotion in me regarding my past abuse.  In regards to looking up my prior sexual offender which was done to make sure he was not living any where near me, I have been searching for this information for years now but had not been successful in finding it (ironically until now).  I gave up on the search until this issue arouse which has arisen my fear of being found by my prior sexual offender in which I was stocked and sexually assaulted  many times for 5+ years. Even today I feel that I fear him more than God, which should not be.  I wanted to talk to my supervisor at work about this issue and would have done so under normal circumstances.  I would not have given her details but explained why I could not work with this person.  However, my supervisor is friends with another staff member who is friends with another staff member.  I am a very private person and know that she will tell my personal business to other staff.  I would rather deal with the nightmares, anxiety, sleeplessness, and flashback which may lead to me quitting my job than to tell her.  I do not want her to tell anyone.  What I have done is told my supervisor that I will not work with this person anymore.  Due to this person  committing this offense again it provided me with perfect opportunity to tell her that I will not work with this person.  She understood saying he should be moved elsewhere to a different location that can offer him help with his problem.  If they change there minds as they did before I may have to quit.  I can not just turn a blind eye and wait for him to offend someone else.  As I said before he has done nothing to me, it is the flashback and nightmare etc due to the striking similarities that I should not have to deal with because the company I work for is enabling this person and  is not taking the proper course of action.  Many other employees feel the same way about this person.