I am new to this forum, or any forum for that matter but I seem to have now where else to turn as there is a lack of solid support in my life. *SIGH* ..... So hear it goes-
 At the age of 5 my brother begun sexual abusing me until the age of 7 and most of his friends raped me. The day of this incident I ran nude to a neighbor's house and told the neighbor what had happen. Police were called I was taken away from the home and placed in the care of my grandmother. 7 years of therapy later I am pretty good at coping with it. I self mutilated for many years in my past but at 19 I found the strength to stop. That reason was my son. I had a whole new out look on life and have never looked back. I was finally happy and still am as I approach my son's 5th birthday and we have now had a daughter as well. I remember when I was pregnant with my daughter that I prayed not to have a girl due to the fear of constantly being skeptical of my son. After having my daughter and seeing my son interact with her the thought never crossed my mind that he would harm her. His is very protective of her and is perfect big brother. Recently, I posted another post in another section about an incident that has sprung a very controversial issue amongst those closest to me.
Yesterday I caught my son forcing our small dog to preform oral sex on him. The fears that I so quickly shrugged away at the birth of my daughter came rushing forward. After the incident I briefly discussed it with my son but did not pry. I handled that part very well but after talking to him I was overwhelmed with so many emotions that I asked a friend to come and watch him while I gathered my thoughts and calmed down. I could not even be around him for that moment . Within a very short time I calmed down and realized that my true concern should be how he learned this behavior and why he was doing it. I called my mother and had her watch him overnight . Today I spoke with my son's Pediatrician about the incident and we contact the local child services to help us figure out whether someone has hurt him or what else is the cause. The child protection representative came to our home this evening and was very nice and helpful. She seemed to think that this was something unusual that needed investigating and agreed that this was not normal behavior. After she left my mother called and proceeded to tell me that she felt that I was overreacting (this is now the second time she has said this) and that she thinks that my son is just "bored and showing it in a wrong way" . She also thinks that I am projecting my own sexual abuse trauma onto the situation and making a big deal out of nothing. When I told her that the Pediatrician and the child protection representative seemed to think it was not normal she replied with "They will say that whether or not they agree, they are obligated and forced to investigate it because they could get sued if they don't".  The worst part about it was when I went to pick up my son at my mother's house you will not believe who was there watching him:  MY BROTHER AND HIS GIRLFRIEND! To make matters worse my brother even had the nerve to offer his opinion about how I was over reacting. I feel like I am unraveling. Am I crazy? Am I "projecting my own issues onto my son"? I think that I did the right thing by removing myself from the situation and calling the people that are supposed to be my EMOTIONAL SUPPORT for help. Now I am being looked at like a horrible mother for not telling my son "don't do that again" and sending him to his room. I was very upset, yes, but I recognized that and did what I thought was in the best interest of my child by giving myself time to calm down and think, not just react. Is that wrong? I don't know anymore, either I am crazy or everyone else around me is. Since when is it proper parenting to lightly scold your child for molesting the family dog and then go about your day as if nothing happened?!! If I am wrong then please, someone tell me so that I can get the help I need. My mother is making me feel like I am ruining my son's life by pursuing help for him.