I am male 36 yo and it has been seven months since my (ex)partner  ( female 28 ) ended our 3 year relationship and it still feels as raw and unbelievable as it did when it first happened and I am at a complete loss at how to get over it.
  Our relationship was in no uncertain terms enviable. She was without a doubt the most attractive woman I have ever met, was interesting , highly intelligent, creative, independent, stylish ..... ( I could seriously fill a page if i continued ) If I was asked to design myself a partner I don't think I could have come up with anyone better and she felt the same about me. We were in a constant state of gushing awe in each others company and quickly formed what seemed to be an unbreakable bond. It had an unmistakably life-partner feel to it which was also voiced by us both.  We never fought , had an amazing sex life,  travelled together , shared all the same friends, interests, bizarre sense of humour. It was pure bliss. I am well aware that in longing for the past one tends to filter an embellish only the good bits, but I assure you this is not the case. All the above are things I thought and was actively grateful for throughout the whole relationship. 
  Then she had a major falling out with her father whom she normally was very close to, that resulted in them no longer speaking while simultaneously going through an uncharacteristic employment drought which threw her into a depression, something she had never experienced. Naturally I was as supportive as I could be and our relationship continued albeit with some distance on her part. Not two weeks later on Christmas day after we had finished unwrapping gifts my mother had sent us, she announces to me that she wants to break up.  Needless to say I was in shock, and she stated that it wasn't so much to do with me ( that she hadn't grow tired or apart ) but just felt like she needed to be independent to sort out some sort of direction in her life as neither of us despite have many interests are especially career oriented.  
  I crossed my fingers , stepped back gave her space , she moved out on the new year, and we saw each other very regularly as friends ( minus one spontaneous hook-up ). Our meeting up grew sparser and after a month of no contact, on our next meeting to my horror, she announced that she had become a stripper, and casually proceded to tell me about work and all the predatory tactics to coax better tips from her supremely desperate clientele. 
I reserved my judgement , expressing only concern for her safety / mental health in hope that this was merely a desperate measure of her own and hoped she would soon come to her senses. She did not, and seemed to be taking this business on as a proper career. I cannot express how utterly gutting it feels to have someone you care about in the sex industry, especially someone you had come to know as being fiercely strong headed, caring and virtuous (in a non religious way )    
    I decided at that point I should really keep my distance, and have since, however she would often call me to help her with things or ask if I wanted to smoke a cigarette. Which I did, however falsely it may have secretly fuelled my hope things would get better. We continued to hang out until the end of  one evening when , completely out of the blue  while walking me to the door announced " you know we are never getting back together, right "
I outright then started avoiding her. After awhile of that, when I next ran into her and she wanted to know why I had been giving her the cold shoulder, and was puzzled at why I would have taken her words so harshly or thinking it cruel to wait till Christmas day ( which she is well aware  I feel very sentimentally about ) and pointed out that it wasn't that big of a deal and that often/normally when people break up, peoples possessions end up being broken and thrown out the window into the street and reflected coldly on our relationship as being a learning experience for her. 
  I have since completely being avoiding her in attempt to get over it , but this is proving to be rather difficult as we have all the same friends and shared basically all the same interest, activities etc. which has put me in the position of essentially having to evict myself from my own life. Unsubscribing form mutual friend's updates on Facebook , severely limiting my social life as the few times I have gone out I invariably run into her in the absolute most painful circumstances: her making out with some random dude, showing off here dancing skills in a bar that happened to have a pole, her and her new boyfriend who is some sleazy character she is clearly dating for money.  As much as I try to distance myself and forget it keeps getting thrown in my face, and although I avoid the topic, many of our friends illustrate her behaviour to be now ,distant, sociopathic, and joyless. 
  A close friend posed that given the sudden and careless nature of her parting from me and her  soon after jumping full into another relationship with said sleazy dude, suggests that she uses long term relationships as a means of establishing some direction in life but eventually comes out of it, realizes she's not genuinely interested  and /or has gained no clearer path , then ends the relationship and moves on to the next. A notion which in itself is so incredibly disheartening. 
  That all in combination with the accelerating decay of my once tight group of great friends due to 
success/cocaine/people-turning-into-assholes, has got me feeling more isolated and down on humanity than I can stand to deal with. So exhausted with trying to find a partner or even good friends that are interesting but not disfunctional and effed up. So exhausted with people never being happy with what they have, always wanting more of everything ,feeling like the universe owes them something.  I have never been one to settle and be in relationships of any kind for there own sake, and despite my being an independent person socially and generally content in my own company, I have no interest in leading some solitary life as pretty much every member of my immediate family does.( all interesting, attractive, and well adjusted folks I might add )   I so thrive in domestic/social life and find no solace in a future filled with cross word puzzles and smarty pants public broadcasting, and the idea of finding a partner even half as suitable seems now a reasonable expectation as winning the lottery a second time. 
My heart doesn't  award second prizes and I can't bring myself in good conscience to be with anyone unless I fancy them equally or more than the last best.