Ive had this feeling for a week or two. The feeling of breathing through a straw, hard to get a good breathe.The only thing i was taking was Flonase and didnt at first associate it with that because of course thats supposed to help isnt it with allergies, sinus etc.. Well i,m pretty sensitive to meds it seems and will have some sort of sie effect to alot of things..sometimes mild and sometimes feelings i just dont like . For me i think it was the Flonase(maybe not) but nevertheless i ended up going to the ER at 3am one morning because of the trouble getting anough air feeling and tightness in my chest. So they kept me over night..I had EKG'S, i had  a chest Xray ,i had blood...blood and more blood taken . I ran on a treadmill for a stress test.... everything checked out A ok.....heart is in great shape, lungs looked good (no clots) , no diabetes, good Colesterhol level, BP great, not pregnant (thank god cos i,m 51) lol ,,,and the multitude of other tests they did with my blood. They found nothng. The wonderful Cardiologist scheduled me to see a coleuge of hers that deals with stress management because i had kinda come to realise that maybe just maybe this is all stress related (for me) Ive had tons of it in the last 3-4 months to include a Frozen shoulder (quite dibilitating), dizzy/spinning episodes (sinus and ear problems) Menopause hit me about this time to and not mildly. I had my stepson and his 2 year old come live with me and my hubby (life altering) plus trying to work while feeling like total crap everyday. So i,m not saying its all in everyones head...of course not.You must definately look after yourself and if you feel anything is life threatening then seek immediate help(i did) But dont rule out that some things can be stress related.The body does some pretty bizarre things to try and cope with anxiety and stress and even though we may feel like we arent under any stress i think alot of us are.I think the more a person consentrates on one particular problem the more it becomes very very real. Look up Anxiety and the multitude of problems/symptoms it causes.
Once again this is just my story.If at anytime you feel like your really gonna stop breathing or somethign bad is really gonna happen then get to the ER.