Hello! I'm 22 years old, female. 
Four weeks ago i got sick,it started like a common cold, my head ached, i was very tired, i took ibuprofen but that night i had very high fever and my entire neck was hurting,it felt like muscle soreness, in the morning i saw a few white bumps on my pharynx, which made me worried and i went to an ENT doctor,she gave me ibuprofen,sinupret,nasal spray Vibrocil and tantum verde for throat. 
My tonsils started to swell, I have to mention i smoked for 3 days after i got sick, which obviously made my tonsils to hurt extremely bad.
One week after i started the treatment i went to doctor for control and i was diagnosed with otitis media in right ear, the doctor prescribed antibiotic augmentin along with probiotics bio3 and vibrocil, i took this treatment for 10 days. i didn't smoke while i took this treatment and after 10 days i didn't feel the discomfort in the right ear anymore but the bumps on my pharinx did not heal at all. After those 10 days i smoked for 2 days, 1 cigar in one day and 3 in the second, my throat hurt and even now (one week after i smoke the last cigar) i have a sore throat alike pain, I don't have troubles breathing or swallowing,actually it feels like my pain goes away for a few minutes after i eat or drink,especially warm liquids. 
I think the bumps on my pharynx are inflamed lymph nodes and it makes me worried that it seems to become worse everyday even that i'm not exposed to irritants and in the past days i saw one new bump everyday, it hurts when it appears and the skin around it is red. Also i saw 3 bumps on the base of my tongue and i guess my lingual tonsils are inflamed too?  
i have to mention that one week before getting sick i started to take birth pills (diane 35), i have a higher testosterone that normal (ten units above normal) and it was the first time when i took pills, i took it for 3 weeks but i stopped mostly because i was extremely hungry and tired all the time, i don't know if matters but i guess that a hormonal change can affect the immune system too. While talking the pill i took a nutritional supplement prescribed for women who take the pill, that consisted of folic acid, chromium, green tea,globe artichoke,guarana and nettle. 
Also if i'm indoors and the air is flowing, like when 2 windows are opened i get sharp and quick headaches around the parietal lobe and other times the pain is located around my eyelids. 
I smoked for 6 months 5 years ago and i started again 2 months ago so i don't have a very long history of smoking but one of my grandmother had bone cancer.
This week i found out that i have a big bump behind my uvula, doesn't budge when i touch it and it's hard like a bone, the bumps on my pharynx are hard as well. 
I'll add pictures of my pharynx and hopefully i'll receive an opinion about it. Honestly i'm very worried it can be something severe.