Firstly, I'm sorry that this is not in the right category, but I struggled to find a specific mental health area ...
 My mother (married but with no more children at home) and my brother (married, in his early thirties) have both formed attachments to soft toys. My mother began this when she travelled overseas for the first time. She was very anxious about flying and so she bought a soft toy (I'm not sure if she made this connection herself) and took it everywhere with her. She has commented that when she would feel stressed on the flight she would look at the soft toy which she addresses in first person, and see that 'he' wasn't stressed, so she didn't need to be. She continues to travel with this toy, and has it photographed with her when she is travelling. She also positions it in a pocket of her backpack so that it can see out, rather than just carry it in her bag. 
 My brother, a few years later, was given a soft toy (dog) after a fight with his current girl friend. She used it to make up with him, using the dog's voice to start a dialogue with him again. Ever since, he has treated the soft toy as a real dog. He brings it everywhere with him, including to his workplace, and is often seen at social gatherings, sitting on his own cuddling or stroking the dog. He does not hide this at all. He regularly posts photos of the dog, which has a name, and speaks about it in first person. I seem to be the only person in my family who is truly disturbed by this. My brother in particular is emotionally disconnected and I see this as symptomatic of emotional issues in his relationships. I feel that my mother is also projecting love (and a personality) onto a toy because she feels a need to care and be cared for and this is not being met in her relationships. Am I right to be upset by this? Whilst I can understand somewhat and make allowance for my mother's soft toy use, I feel greater concern for my brother. My subtle attempts at addressing it are not getting through. Other family members feel that there is nothing wrong with it. I am trying to work out why I am so upset and if I am the one who should just let it go, or if it is kinder to intervene?