I have been fighting depression on and off for more than 20 years and many other symptoms that were finally diagnosed as BPD more than 2 years ago. I have done quite well since the diagnosis and participation in STEPPS which I understand is similar to DBT. Was removed from my last doses of Prozac and told by my therapist to "call if I ever needed her again"...However one of my symptoms is a terrible memory, especially when my depression flares up and I feel that all of my skills are lost in this fog. Over the past few weeks I have noticed an increase in  symptoms. Lethargy, sense of hopelessness, loss of interest in just about everything, crying jags, loss of future, loss of time, angry outbursts, walling myself away from friends, violence (shattered a rolling task chairs legs by smashing it from over my head) anxiety that today turned into near sheer panic and that feeling that generally swallows you whole and makes me want to disappear or slash something or scream to get away. 
Reading it now, it is even greater than I feared. Much greater. 
Two days ago I started my search again for help and am awaiting acceptance into the Yahoo Group 'dbt class' to start the healing, and joined here. However I am very afraid that there is very little soil under my feet and I am looking into the same maw that swallowed me whole for an entire year. I couldn't work, was unresponsive to a slew of SSRI's, was terrified to even go to the grocery store and finally  went to day therapy three days a week because I had to to keep my work disability going. If it weren't for my psychiatrist giving up on me and sending me to the University I never would have been properly diagnosed...I am hoping for help from DBT but fear that the depression and anxiety will get me first and I will start the nightmare over.
 This cycles very fast and very deep and I am going through some terrible personal life issues. The failure of a tumultuous relationship of 12 years, a custody battle with ex over our 16 yr old son (before current relationship) who was with me until last summer that will result in crippling child support that in turn will cause my inability to make most of my mortgage, the strain I am causing on our 10 yr old daughter (from current relationship) watching her father and I fall apart---while I become distant and unable to hold the reins in my own life.
 It is hard to look at it objectively with so much going on at once, and to keep a positive attitude when much of it is out of my control and so life changing...Where do I turn when I am coming apart as I watch, but not a suicide risk? I feel there is no stop gap to keep me from falling off the cliff.
 I no longer have a clinician of any type, and it will take weeks to get in to see someone. By then I may be the puddle of me that was literally lifted off my floor when I finally broke the last time when I was under a Dr.'s care. I am at a complete loss and feel like a deer frozen in headlights just waiting for the Mac truck that's barreling straight at me. Does anyone have any crisis prevention tactics or ideas that may help me??