I was weaned off off effexor XR after i took it for a month and leveled up onto adderall 20mgxr and wellbutrin. My side effects from withdrawing from effexor were AWFUL so i didnt take any medecines and have been med free for 2-3 weeks. I finally decided to give adderral another shot. Yesterday was great! I felt a TINY bit nauseous, but nothing bad at all. I still felt like eating and probabyl ate more than I normally do (except i didnt crave as many sweets).I felt happy and loving. I was calm and understanding with my kids and my quick temper and anger was completely gone (until later in the evening i could feel it returning).  I got tons of paperwork for my work done that ive been trying to gettogether for months, it was all jsut great. I didn't go mad and clean like crazy or anything like that, but i felt liek a NORMAL person with maybe a little high, which im guessing with go away eventually. Only problem, i didnt sleep at all. I got up around 10am yesterday and took one and it is now 12:04 pm today and i havent slept a wink. I tried but couldnt fall asleep! Now I am drained. I took another one this morning and i could feel it at first but i got a little nauseous until I ate but not i have a slight headache and felling kind of yuck. Now that i am typing it out, i bet this is due to my lack of sleep?  I have been pounding water, and like i said, continuing to eat, so besides the restlessness, the only other bad thing is my dry mouth (and right now the headache on the right side of my face/eye and slight nausea) . Im wondering if my dosage is at a good dose or since im feeling a little bit yuck if i should drop down to 15mg maybe?  i in no way want to feel "high" off of this drug. I want to take just enough to feel normal, and no more than that. I guess i am jsut scared of going passed that point without knowing it! Would you continue on 20mg xr for a few weeks? drop dosage lower? are my side effects just from starting the meds or could it mena its too high of a dose?