well i read others post. sound exact , 100% similar to me . I thought only i am the one who felt od. This website is very good and useful and every patient face the same ,. it exactly matched to mine. It's all feeling same confusions came on me too. Luckly i can easily handel those confusion. Well, Doctor told me that to get rid from medicine you should be away from paranoid thoughts. By the way i experienced more than 100% paranoid confusions. Because of that , even if it repeated either i feel easy on that case. Now My case is related to body and psysical. Such as dizzyness, feeling like drunkhard, feel like somebody put stone over my head, heavy on the head, body used to move now it doesnt moving, But still i am not thinking i m well. I am getting physical and real problem then mental, mental is psyconess that happened over to me so it repeated either i like something daily life. Just easily digested a to z., Body nervous, body psyco, feeling like something watching , hearing it has not going but it is less and very easy cause that happen too much before to me. And i saw others post it happens to all, But nowaday i enjoy those things. But they are far reduced either. But how to get rid of actual problem that is a big problem. Today i worked well but still there was small small too many uncountable problems. such as 5%^ cold feeling , 5% drunkhard feeling, something like hang, all were 5%. When this problem happens when i reduce small does what will happen when we reduce at once . totally disable happens., So dangrous thing is this. But now body dont moves? what is the reason i felt heavy on my head? I felt the electromagnetic wave is little high. That make me feeling heavy , i just gussed. Well doctor extremely scare with psyconess than psysicl but psyconess i extremely enjoy caause that i have already done thing. just main thing how to get rid of other psyical, But i am feeling now that doctor was not wrong. I am experience some difference, in the past when i was reduced to 100 mg seroquel that time my body was moving voilently, and i felt too much heavier on my head, This time i m aslo 100 mg but head is less heavy and body movement is too less. I am not actually against with them, whatever decrease happened is by them. Just i like do practice. At once makes disable. That i scare, BUt the lazy, sleepy, less energetic , powerless, is so hard, And this is sydney very expensive. God help those who help themselves. Such a expensive medicine,. My life s,,,ks. But i truely follow doctor. I am happy i am not alone this from this website i knew symptons are excat to mine. 100% exact. . But if i am not able to get rid of medicine ther is no way. The most scaring part of mental illness is it's medicine is for life time,.  Death is better. And if this say to doctor say another sense. Neer born diabities kids. Other have same symptons exact,