Ever since I had first heard of Borderline Personality Disorder I was certain I had it. Everything I read about it, the different versions of the diagnostic tools, accounts of people's personal experiences with having it, even accounts of people who don't have it but know others that have it. It ALL fit with my life. Sadly I know how common it is to read or hear about something and project the symptoms upon yourself or others. I have to admit that I have done this before, if anyone were to say that they had NEVER done it before they would be a liar. But this was and is different. I will get to how in a little bit, but first I went to a doctor's appointment.
 I bring up my fears about the possibility of me having BPD. She said I didn't. That she could TELL I didn't. She didn't flat out laugh at my fears but close to it. She began to tell me of horror stories of people she had seen with BPD. Telling me of their constant lies and manipulations. How they couldn't be trusted and on and on and on. I asked her HOW she could honestly know that I didn't have this disorder when she didn't see me regularly. She told me that I didn't "seem" manipulative....... That floored me. So what, there's a certain "look" to someone with BPD? A certain hairstyle maybe? Is there a branded birthmark every person with BPD is given at birth that allows doctors to immediately recognize who, no, who is too personable, WHAT they are dealing with? I found it hard to believe and it left me shocked. But the thing was, it didn't end there......
 When I left the office and came back out to my mother she asked what had gone on and how it had went. I told her that I was upset that I was in there maybe ten minutes, asked standard questions straight from a textbook, handed a prescription and virtually told not to worry my little head about anything. And then I told her what I was told about how I COULDN'T have BPD. Well to the first she looked at me like I was rather silly and said of course that's all I got. I went to my regular doctor. She is so overbooked I'm lucky I had that much of her time. 
 She agreed with EVERYTHING the doctor said and more. She told me that there is no way that I have BPD and that if I think I have it it's just because I'm reading the vague symptoms and projecting myself on them. And again what was the proof? That I wasn't MANIPULATIVE. This was insane. What the **** did they think manipulation WAS? The best manipulators are ones where you don't KNOW that they are manipulating you. But on this I will leave it open.
  Frantic efforts to avoid real or imagined abandonment.
Okay, so I will be the first to point out that this one depends on who the person is. Basically, I erect a HUGE wall around myself that very few people can cross over. If you are one of them my imagination begins to run wild at the slightest drop of a hat. I try to call you about something important and you don't answer - I have literally spent almost an hour repeatedly calling my boyfriend. The slightest "I can't right now" is their way of distancing themselves from me.... Heck, my bff once told my bf: "Heck, I love her to death but sometimes I just need some SPACE, don't show her your house Jim or she will all but move in with you before you even realize what she's doing".
 Unstable interpersonal relationships.
This one I can constantly see within myself. I have begun to talk to Margret about it also. One day I will LOVE a person, they are the best person in the world, everything they say is right and good and just. Then something happens and I hate them, I despise them, I criticize their every thought and action. This is made especially difficult within myself since I often realize what I am doing with my thinking. The constant shift, when I catch it, makes me tormented inside because I know that I am being unfair to the other person. I can't take everything so personal. I can't hate the person because they don't feel the same need that I have to be punished. I can't hate a person for helping me when I didn't ask or for not helping me when I did ask. And on and on......
 Personality disturbance.
Oh wow is this a big one. I shift all the time in how I literally perceive myself. I joke that I literally don't know what I will be each time I look in the mirror. And this isn't just a day to day change, no, this can literally be a minute to minute change. Am I too fat? Am I looking pretty good? Am I a good happy person? Am I the spawn of the devil unfit for human interaction? Do I even know who I am? What am I feeling right now? Why don't I remember how I felt three days ago when I was so angry at so-and-so? etc...
 Impulsive actions in at least two areas including:
(promiscuous sex, reckless driving, eating disorders, binge eating, substance abuse)
 Well, let's see..... Hmm, in the past year I have had sex without thoroughly knowing the guy almost ten times if not more. I think that might just cover that and if it doesn't then there is the fact that this would be a lot more if I were literally able to. For example, I was chatting strange old guys up since I was about thirteen or fourteen. Anything to make them happy tends to be the motto.
  Substance abuse. Hmmmm...... let's see, if it will make me go away for a little while and I can readily get a hold of it, I have taken it. This includes binge drinking despite knowing that I literally should not be drinking at all due to having AIP and constantly faced with the idea that one day I could wake up paralyzed or have seizures. And always I am faced with a SEVERE stomach pain for a day or two afterward. This also leads to all the other things I've taken. Demerol is heaven, Morphine makes me sick in high doses, Hydro makes me horny, Oxy makes me sick in any dose, Excedrin makes me slightly loopy, with Dramamine I can do no wrong, and with sleeping pills I can float away into never never land.
 Not mentioned here is my spending habits and shoplifting. I can go into a store with a list of things I NEED and come out with literally none of them and things I WANT instead, especially books. And I have had trouble with shoplifting and stealing for a while. I don't do it often simply because I don't want to get caught. But in things like gift shops and such, I almost always slip something small into my pocket.
 Self-Harm.
Well that one is possibly the easiest to talk about ever. Been doing that since I was in middle school. And If you want to add the other characteristics such as biting and picking at oneself and scars then that would take me back to elementary school.
 Instability due to Mood.
Hmmm...... Yeah, I'd say I've got that. Rarely ever lasts more than let's say.... six hours on the outside. Of course when I am IN the mood I don't know that. I could go on but I'm getting bored of doing this so I'm going to wrap things up more quickly.
 Chronic feelings of emptiness.
Well yeah. I often feel as if I'm not real. As if everything is just a facade. That I am nothing but an empty shell with pretty masks that I put on to fool people into thinking I am normal.
 Inappropriate Anger.
Now this is one that I'm not sure I can see in myself. At least not all the time or as far as the anger being manifested physically in fights and the such. I do have a hair trigger that often I can randomly have pulled though. I try to control this because I know that it is so unreasonable. If something doesn't go right at my brother's house or the kids get too close to me I try and try and try to control myself when I want to snap. And for the most part I am able to. For the most part I am able to say "stop now or else I won't be responsible" or "you guys need to stop the chatter now because if I hear anymore I wont be able to take it". Of course those are just vague examples but they live with my brother who is the same way in that regard so they know what I'm talking about.
  But what do you think?