I'll start with myself. I am a 16 year old girl, and i have a boyfriend of 13 months and he is very supportive of me.
so, back in october.. we decided to have sex. I knew i was ready and he knew he was. If you knew us, you wouldnt think we are some hooligans runnin' around causing trouble, we are very mature. he snuck over and we did. 
later my parents found out... they came down hard on me.. coming from a christian family.. it was very rough.. i feel like i am considered the devil child and disobedient, useless, thoughtless, bad... it makes me feel terrible because all i want to do is to make them happy... but i do one thing for me and its the one thing that makes them hate me...
I was grounded.. they now hate my boyfriend.. won't let me see him, can't hang out with him.. constantly tell me how much they hate him and how we shouldnt be together.. That really gets to me... After my mom found out, she told me that me having sex was worse than when she had cancer.. that broke my heart... Imagine your mom telling you that...
Things started getting back to normal.. they still dont let me see him.. and they still hate him.. they still look at me like ive failed them.. but its better..
lately ive been feeling... lost. I mean, i shouldnt because my life is great. i have a great house, a pool, my own room, a job, a car, food, clothes. but i feel like there's something missing... I'm sad.. and i shouldnt be.. i have a great life.. and being sad with all of this just makes it worse.. i think about everyone else.. they have real problems.. i shouldnt be such a baby... my boyfriend is graduating.. and 2 of my best friends are moving.. and almost all of my friends are graduating too.. so next year ill be all along.. I'm dreading it.. 
I dont want people to judge me.
I just need someone to sympathize with me.. 
I feel so alone..
On other sites, old women would give me 'advice' like "listen to your parents" and "...maybe if you weren't such a bad kid" that doesnt help my situation at all.
I'm sad, and I need someone to talk to.