I'm just so sad. It's like happiness is as rare as unicorns. I don't like to be pessimistic but that is what keeps me from getting hurt. My emotions are a roller coaster, when I reach the top I plummet down faster than I climbed, and when I'm down I stay down but I'm still moving fast and when I slow down and start going up again I fall all over.
Last year around April my nana (grandmother in the Irish culture) was diagnosed with acidic cell carcinoma. I stayed in the hospital for days at a time and seeing her every moment she was awake. The cancer spread to fast to treat and just like that, she was gone. February 5th. A month before her 61st. About a week before that my paternal grandmother went in and found out she has a cancerous tumor below her kidney. I have cancer in my veins. My grandma is alive, but not healthy.
This month my great grandma (maternal) has been in and out of the hospital. Last Friday she was admitted for appendicitis and now she has fluid building up in her system that has tested positive for cancer. Her 5th round and final. She says she's had enough and that its time for her to meet god.
I have 2 younger cousins, 3 mo apart. My littler cus's 4th birthday is later this month and I'm not allowed to see him because my family hates my mom and I should share the hatred she has for the people she grew up with.
My maternal grandfather is being tested for Parkinson's and my mom doesn't care because he let her verbally abusive husband stay at his house when he was in need.
The hypocrite says people who abuse should be punished, I've been verbally abused and neglected since I was 9 by her. My mom called me fat and put me on restrictive diets that now cause me to have BET or binge eating disorder, anorexia, and severe depression. For the longest time I believed her when she said no one will love me because I'm fat, my dad has proven her wrong, but at times I feel so lonely I turn to something to help me through the night. But sometimes I don't want to make it through, those nights my mom laughs at me as I vomit at 3 am and go to school 4 hours later.
My teachers look at me with pity when I tell them I spent the weekend at the hospital or that I miss so much school because I'm saying goodbye. my friends didn't know my nana was dying until I didn't come to school til noon the day after she died. Even now only one person knows and all she can say is "I'm sorry". I don't want pity, I don't want people to think of me as any less strong, but I am. Each time I say goodbye I get weaker and my heart starts to hurt more than the words my mom says to me.
When I was a kid I thought moms were this amazing race where only love radiated from them, I thought my mom could never be mean to me. During school we were taught about bullies at school, but what about the bullies at home?
 Its about 2 am where I live, whenever I have bad nights I don't fall asleep til sunrise and usually start crying to the point where I can't stand.  I'm afraid of this happening during the school year and I have as bad of am attendance record (I missed 52 days in a single semester). If I dont have a bad night, I usually lay down arounf 9 but dont fall asleep til 12 or 1 because my anxiety keeps me up and I start thinking of my mistakes and of things that need to get done. My dad has about had it with my late night texts regarding future events and necessities.