I was married about 4 years ago to a wonderful man who is 10 years older than me and who had a 10 yr old son at the time. He was diagnosed with adhd and bipolar with autistic tendancies. I was prepared to deal with that and take him on as my own. He took to me quite easily since his biological mother lived out of town and didn't come often. 
 There was an incident with a neighbour of ours at the time who said that my stepson, joey, was caught taking a diaper off of there little girl in the backyard of there house. The police were called but there were no charges laid. My husband took it incredibly hard and questioned joey over and over and got the same answer out of him, which was obviously no. over much time since nothing came of it and since there were no other occurances, it was eventually forgotten about....by my husband... when that happened i was currently pregnant with my daughter who is now 3 years old. 
  After my daughter was born other incidents happened that were questionable that kept me on edge. nothing that my husband couldn't chalk up to adolescent curiosity, that he was handling inappropriately due to the adhd...sounds like a pretty logical explanation. one of the incidents that occured was that i woke up to my daughter screaming in the livingroom scared and alone(she was still sleeping in my room). She was a little over a year old at the time. i always closed my door when going to bed, because i had gotten a little paraniod about her safety after multiple incidents occured of the same nature.  how did she open the door herself? and how so i didnt hear her? these were the questions going through my head, along with many others.
  I brought up my concerns to joeys psychologist who gave me no advise accept to educate him on appropriate and inappropriate sexual behaviors, as if to imply that he was just curious. i was a little insulted that my concerns about my daughters safety were downplayed. which made it that much harder for me and my husband. I wanted an eye on them at all times and he made me seem like i was over protective. thanks to the professional!!!
  About 10 months ago i woke up to go to the bathroom and checked on my daughter as i always do! and found that her pull-up was ripped on one side. i picked her up and brought her into bed with me because i was concerned as usual! when we got up in the morning i asked her what happened to her "night time panties" and she replied that joey was tickling her. When i asked her where she pointed to her bum. i immediately started balling and phoned my husband. I told him i was leaving to my moms until he was gone, so he left work immediately to watch me take the bag i packed for me and his little girl and leave. He was crying he was so upset. He immediately called social services and  we have been jumping through hoops with boys homes ever since.
  All of my fears were realized that day and i consider it the worst day of my life so far. It has put a huge strain on my husband and I. 
  I am thankful that it didn't get much farther than tickling...however i will never believe that that day was the first time it ever happened. and I will never know everything that happened when i was sleeping or working a night shift. I am still hurting over this and it has made me even more protective with other kids and her other cousins. 
  I received counselling for a few months which seemed to help a little bit but i will never forgive or forget. it has been 10 months and i still don't call him or see him. and neither does my daughter!!!!