Most people will never care or even read this. I don't care. I just want my story out there. I've been depressed since I was 6 years old. My first day of kindergarden, my father went to prison, protecting his brother (later mentioned), I was 6 and when everything bad began. Between the ages of 6 and 9, I was raped. Three years, everyday by my uncle (my mothers brother). I never questioned whether it was wrong bc I didnt know it was. I was a child. I thought it was normal. When I finally got away at the age of 9, was bc my family moved to KY, and placed me into the hands of my fathers brother, yet, another man to take advantage of my innocence. He didnt rape, he only touched for the year I lived there, but its all the same to me now. My home life with horrible but school was just as bad, I was teased everyday n then I came home to my uncle. Throughout my life, my mother was an alcoholic n I practically raised my younger sister since I was 5. I protected her from my uncles n still do whether she realizes it or not. What a childhood, huh? When I was 10, I moved to a different town. Everything got better, my mom still drank but my dad came home n things began to get better. We moved again to a small town where I've been since 5 grade. Things got even better, though I stayed tucked safely into my shell. In middle school things began to go bad with my parents. I was cleaning the house, doing laundry, cooking, getting my sister up and ready for school everyday and staying strong. In highschool, I came out that I was bisexual n everything was okay. I went in and out of relationships that meant nothing to me. I went to dances and games, and joined color guard, but I remained reserved until my sophmore year, when I became someone I didnt know. I didnt come out of my shell, but I put on a mask, one I havent been able to free myself from to this day. I've never been clinically diagnosed, but I know I am. I realized this in middle school. By the end of my sophomore year, I began cutting and I still do. I enjoy the feel of the blade on my skin. I have too many ups and downs to count n currently I am on an all time low. If you ask, a friend, I'm happy and ready to go to college in the fall, but on the inside I am gone. I dont feel anything but hollowness and sadness anymore. I feel like ive given up. I considered suicide alot when I was younger, but these past months it has been so many more thoughts. I wonder if anyone would even care. I cant count how many times I've thought of cutting deeper, or stepping in front of a car when I go check the mail. I dont see the point in life anymore. My people have been through worse, and this may be nothing to someone else, but this is my life and I hate it. I just want it all to end.