Okay I have seen posts saying similar things but none seem to relate to me.
 I talk to myself fairly often, I have conversations out loud but usually when I am alone. It's not like I talk about things that make me sad it's mainly happy things that I find myself having a conversation with myself about. I find myself talking to mirrors and my computer but I don't register that I am doing it.
 I can get in well in social situations as well though. It's like I have quite a lot of friends but to be honest I'd rather be alone. Is that weird?  I can have normal conversations and people seem to like me but I tend to get ignored if I'm honest. Like the majority of the time people ignore me and I ten to leave the conversation or make a big show about how they are ignoring me and refuse to say what I was gong to say (but that's getting off topic.) 
 When I am in awkward social situations I tend to have conversations with myself like one side of me is panicking whereas the other one is telling me what to do to make me fit in. If I have for example made friends with someone on the Internet and have been talking to them for awhile via texting when they want to call I panic and talk to myself about possible situations and sometimes I talk myself out of it and find and excuse to not talk to them.
 I talk to myself a lot it is usually when I am reacting to stuff like if I'm playing a game I'll talk to myself or if I am talking to someone through the Internet. I go through possible outcomes in my head. If I am alone watching a movie I will say things to myself like if I was watching with another person.
 If I am alone in a room not doing anything or drawing or something that i don't talk to myself at all. I talk to myself like I would to another person.
 It's worse when I am in awkward social situations because like I said one side is panicking and the other is trying to tell me what to do and how to do it. 
 I am also really good at acting Ii don't really know why but I can pretend to be completely dissertation things. I also try and make my life seem more interesting
 I think I made myself seem really crazy right now... Good thing no one knows me right? Lol. Am I really crazy though like just idk what I'm asking really just opinions?  Urg this keeps changing topics and I seriously feel the urge to not post this and I know as soon as I do I'm going to want to delete it... Like negative comments are gong to make me freak out but it's fine I want opinions right? God I'm rambling PLEASE HELP!!