I'm female, 53, very healthy.  
 Unfortunately, I have a troublesome family history.  Both of my parents have hypertension, and all four grandparents did as well.    
 My mother has always been a very healthy person, an avid exerciser, who eat right.  She still developed high blood pressure in her 40's and has had it for over 30 years. 
 I developed pre-eclampsia AND diabetes when I was pregnant, despite only gaining 24 pounds and eating very healthy.   (This was 27 years ago.)
 Fast forward to 2015.   I exercised 3-4 times a week; hard cardio on an elliptical/arker (its' like a combo stair-stepper).    A month ago I felt weird; very dizzy and my heart was beating too hard (my usual resting pulse is 60.)
 I took my BP and it was 165/105, and stayed there or higher for the next 2 days.  My doctor put me on a low dose beta blocker; Metoprolol (the generic version of Toprol) 25 mgs, XR (extended release.)
 That was a month ago, and I HATE the way I feel.
 At first, I had awful tummy upset (I took the pill in the morning, with food, as directed).  So I started taking it at night, with dinner.   
 I feel incredibly sad and depressed all the time.  I've doubled down on my exercise routine, working out 30-45 minutes every single day (7 days a week).   My heart rate and recovery time are excellent, and I feel okay for about an hour AFTER the workout, but the depression is back again.
 I'm NOT a "crying" type person (although I was when I was a lot younger.)   My job is in sales; I own my own business, and have to cold call all day, every day.   The result is I've built up a very thick skin and can handle rejection pretty well.  
 That being said, since starting this BP med, I'm crying over tv commericals and re-runs of Law & Order.  WTF? 
 What KILLS me is that when I ask my doctor about it, the answer I get is "You're symptoms are not typical for the dose you're on."   Same answer from my local pharmacist.  
 Sigh.  I hate, hate, hate that I have hypertension.  It makes me feel like a failure at maintaining good health.    But I'm not usually a depressed person; in fact, quite the opposite.  I'm usually happy, motivated, very determined. 
 I have some medical conditions: hypothyroidism for which I take meds, GERD (also take meds) and I go through periods of time when I have panic attacks.
 Sorry to be so long winded.  Has anyone else EVER gotten depression from their blood pressure medication?
 Thanks!~