This past summer I was visiting my best friend who lives in a different city than I do. Her and I were both 19 at the time. My parents have friends there too and since their house is more centrally located we stayed at my parent's friend's house. In the past, the husband and I have always been close. I was verbally abused by my step father growing up so I looked to the husband kind of as a father figure, seeking advice and just texting him any time I needed someone to talk to. It was never anything sexual. But the first night we stayed there his wife ended up having a concert to go to with her friend, and so it was just the husband, my best friend and myself. He ended up taking us to the grocery store and letting us pick out any alcohol that we wanted, so we both just got a six pack of beer, and he got one too. When we got back to the house we decided to put on a movie, and just drink and hang out. Over the course of the night I ended up having four beers in maybe an hour time frame, but my friend fell asleep. So it was just him and I for the rest of the night. I remember not being able to control my actions, and being really talkative, it was the first time I had ever drank, and he took me downstairs to get some water. But then he ended up touching my vagina, and I know I liked it but it was wrong so I asked him to stop. When he didn't I dropped to the ground and he got down and tried to put his penis in my mouth. I turned my head and he got back up and took me back upstairs and put me in bed, saying he'd wake my friend up and ask her to come in. I didn't really understand what was going on so I laid down, but he laid down too and started touching me inappropriately again. I don't remember if I asked him to stop or not, because I just kind of blacked out at that point, and when I asked my friend what happened the next day she just said she fell asleep and he woke her up and said I was sleeping in the guest room. She didn't make it seem like he had done anything to her, and we are close so I know she would have said something. That morning I flat out asked him if he had done anything to me, and he said we had to talk. But when I pulled him aside later he just said that I was all over him and begging him, which I know is not the case. I don't know what to do or if it's considered sexual assault, because I do remember liking it..but asking him to stop and him continuing.