Hello!
My name is Adrian and I'm 27 years old. I'm in a relationship with a girl for 5 years and a half and recently she decided to take a break because she could not cope with depression and felt somewhat trapped in this relationship and felt that she can not be loved in the state in which she is now, and wanted a break to sort her problems. only ..... her condition is getting worse, if about 2 weeks ago, when we decided to take a break she was slightly sad and anxious, she is constantly crying now, has panic attacks, cannot find her place , she sits most of the day with a girlfriend at her home because she is afraid to stand alone, not hardly smiles and says she does not know what's going on with her or if she will ever get through this! 2 days ago she wanted to see me, we got togheter and went to a park but hardly talked about her issue, but mostly about how we been in the last week. she barely spoke, she said she does not sleep at night and that she does not want to restart the relationship now because she feels she need to get over this one alone. she is calling me at night and tells me she can not sleep and we talk nd usually got to sleep with me on the phone. today she said she has an appoipent to a doctor but does not want me to go with her, she is going with her friend. it hurts so much that she does not let me be there for her and honestly i do not know how can i help her and i dont understand why she is rejecting me when I want to be near her. I dont know how to convince her that it's not good to remain this way because I see her daily how she is worse! she does not eat and she smokes about 2 packs of cigarettes per day given that she used to smoke one pack per week. she is a very introverted girl and u rarely get anything from her even when she's mad or has a problem she prefers to keep it in. She is very perfectionist and hasn't a good relationship with her family, they barely speak. What could I do in this case? I understand that people do not think clearly when depressed and tend to reject any help and any significant person in their lives, but I feel completely helpless in front of these things and do not know how to react. I'm afraid that if I try to insert myself in her life again she will react and she will never want me back. i asked her a million times if she want to be alone and she only says that this is a break and wants me to understand her even if it hurts me. we talk on daily base, one or two calls a day, she replies to my txts, we even saw eachother 2 times in 10 days at her wish. i dont understand why she doesnt want me closer to her and wants to be more with her female friend?(no they are not together, that girl is married with children and my ex gf sleeps and her house sincer 2-3 days ago sincer her depression got worse). 
what can i do except give her time? why does she reject me?