I have been having problems with depression for quite some time.  The past 7 or so years have really been hard for me.  In 2007 my Mom died, a month later my 16 year old dog had to be put down, in 2008 I lost my job, in 2009 my Dad died, later 2009 I started having marital problems which ended in 2012 in a divorce because I found out my husband had a girlfriend and child (4 years old) in another city.   I moved into a new home and was ready to start a new life.   A few months later I reconnected with my high school sweetheart.  He joined the army when he was 17, went to Vietnam when he was 18 telling me not to wait for him.  I got married.  When he came back from Vietnam he tracked me down, but as I said I was already married.  He eventually married and a couple times we all went out to eat etc.  But we always had strong feelings for each other.  So we reconnected thru facebook. He was no longer married and was living in Vegas only 6 hours from me in Tucson.  We talked, texted, emailed for hours everyday.  It was like we were making up for lost time.  And like it had not been 45 years.  He came for a visit which was wonderful and eventually moved out here.  (I own a home he lived in an apartment so it made more sense for him to move here).  As time went on he started behaving in a way that I didn't understand.  He would be happy one minute and in a frenzy the next.  Everything started bothering him...flies, bugs, - I eventually found out he suffers from PTSD which had been diagnosed but never treated.  I read up on it, contacted groups to find out as much as I could so I could learn to cope with it.  I could not.  And he could not see me being hurt by it, so he went back to Vegas.  I had thought we would have a happy life together and enjoy our golden years.  It didn't happen and I became so sad.  With the help of a PTSD group I was able to dig out of my dark hole.  We kept in contact and about 3 months later he begged to come back.  I told him he had to promise to get treatment to which he agreed.  He did make an appointment at the VA but before the time came we had an argument during one of his meltdowns and he cancelled it.  He really did try to control his out bursts but he can't.  I don't even remember how but I think I asked him to leave or maybe he said he would leave...In any event he is going back to vegas.  Part of me is relieved because it is so hard living with PTSD, but I can feel myself sinking into a depression again.   He is leaving today to bring a load of his belongings to vegas, but coming back for a second load, and possibly a third.  He gets a very small social security check so he doesn't have the funds for a moving truck.  I am dying inside.  I want to tell him to stay, but I know it will just repeat itself.  Yesterday I begged him to get treatment.  He emphatically said he would NOT, that he will not take any meds (they had tried that with him years ago), he knows he will not  go to group, and that this is the way he is...he has learned to accept it that he needs to live in a room by himself and not hurt anyone else.  I am crying writing this.  I don't know what else to do.  Can anyone give me some advice or maybe a peptalk?