To give you a little backround information about this girl, I'll start awhile back. In the eigth grade we were extremely attracted to each other and in the summer we almost went out, but her and her ex got back together. I thought she would always come back to me but I was wrong. They have been together for about two years and we became really close friends over that time period. We text all the time and tell each other things that nobody else really knows. For instance, she told me that her and her boyfriend are probably going to break up soon because there is too much fighting going on. We still think of each other as attractive, because she said I was hot, and she knows I think she is also, and we also flirt all the time in person, even though she has a boyfriend. A few days ago, the girl went to a party and got pretty drunk. First she texted me, I love you, and I obviously knew she was having something to drink. I asked her if she had been drinking, and she said yes. She then brought up something completely random, and said that she wants to be with me after her and her boyfriend break up. At this point I was laughing because of how drunk she was. I said "you are so drunk right now, and this is obviously not the truth." She then said that "The truth comes out while a person is drunk." and that she was not kidding at all. She then asked if I would be good to her if I was to go out with her. I said yeah I would? but I'm having doubts about this being the truth. She kept saying that she was being dead serious. After I said I would be good to her she said "Good, because I want to be with you when me and my boyfriend break up." I have had feelings for this girl since the eigth grade. I tried to act like they were gone, and asked a girl out, and went out with her for about 6 months. But even during the relationship there was still that little place in my heart for this girl. I wish it would go away honestly, it's quite a nuisance. The day after the night she drunk texted me she said that she really didn't mean any of that, and that she loves her boyfriend, even though she tells me daily that they are going to break up soon. My question is, was what she texted me actually the truth? Does she have feelings for me but doesn't want to admit to them because she is in a relationship?