I really don't know where to start... All I know is when i was around 8 i was molested by a older man (70's) we was always close til then. Then i started acting out. I know the differecne between right and wrong but, it seems not to matter most of the time when put in certain situations. Around 13 I started sneeking out with 25 year old man. I never done anything with him sexually (he touched my leg and i had a panic attack.) I started talking to other guys very soon after. Younger more around my age. My first real boyfriend came to the house regularly. My dad who was rarely around just didnt care or didn't realize. My first time I don't know if its classified as rape but he was dragging me to the bedroom in a jokiingly fasion. I was screaming for my brother to help me I really don't know if he took me seriously but, he said this is on you and let him drag me in there. He started kissing me and wanted to go further. I said no repeatedly. He was getting kind of forceful and finally I just laid there. I was thinking is this is what it suppost to feel like when a guy loves you? I still remeber it very clearly the empty pain that set itself into me over and over. After that I started reaching out for any male. Guys at that age really only want one thing. I've been in abusive relationship after abusive relationship (phisically) I just wanted to be loved. I find it very hard to say no to a man even now. I'm 28. I'm still reaching out wanting to be loved in all the wrong ways. I'm a married mother of 2 boys. Its very sad and frustratin that I feel like this all the time. I feel like a sexual freak. Love is not in sex for me. I*t never has been. I never start out sexually turned on its like another part of me takes over. I can't tell my husband. He would leave me for sure if he knew that at night I make up people in my head. People that isn't real at all. They are always perfect never a flaw. Just someone that loves me. Never hit me or cheat on me. Always being romantic. I know I'm crazy. I do go to a doc for being nutty. I guess I'm just lost. Am I desitine to be a ***** for the rest of my life? Thats the way I feel. I've not cheated on my husband in the 8 years weve been together. But, its not that I dont day dream about it. I'm really struggleing with this. I guess its easier to talk to people that I never have to see. I want to die alot. I feel so dirty. I feel like I'm doing this to myself. Its all my fault. I've never even told my doc all this and I've been going for years. plz help..