My son & daughter-in-law have entered into what is going to be a very ugly divorce. My daughter-in-law, unknown to my son, had been diagnosed with 'Borderline Personality Disorder' prior to their marriage.She is now 27 and he, 42. She was pregnant with another man's baby when they got involved. (My son did adopt the baby, a boy). They also have 2 girls. Kids are 8, 6 & 2. They've been married 7 years. She has done many strange, unexplainable things, but in the past 2 years has been going downhill. We've all been trying to get her to see a doctor, counsellor, etc. for several years. (because of her behavior). Very immature, lies, has all about me attitude, can get very violent in a second, does things that don't make sense for a wife & mother. Now they are getting a divorce (my son has had it). She has spent uncontrollably (10's of thousands of dollars).He's had to re-finance the house several times to pay off credit cards, etc. Within the past year, there has been a definite change for the worse. He recently caught her at a sleazy motel with a man of a different race. Would tell him where she went & who she spoke to on cell phone was none of his business. Would lock up car & cell phone. Found out a friend was picking her up after my son & the kids were asleep & taking her to different places for the cost of beer to this minor girl. Very irresponsible, has no interest in home, yard, is very paranoid, etc. Neighbor watched kids on 3 occassions because she was sleeping & had door locked. Could not be awakened. Has called certain numbers incessantly on cell phone. Was going over plan every month (bill averaging from $300 to over $600 extra). Made 905 calls in one month to one number. Oldest child is a son, who has ADDH. The 1st doctor she took him to spoke to her first & told her she had 'Borderline Personality Disorder.' When she told me, she laughed about it.Can someone please tell me the signs & symptoms of BPO & if this is all that's wrong & what it means? We've recently been told that she's on 'crack,' but don't know positively. I am worried sick that she will be able to lie, manipulate & sweet talk her way into getting custody of the kids. My son is asking for sole custody. Can anyone tell me about the chances of a person with this becoming addicted to drugs?  If she were to get custody, I'm worried to death about the children's welfare & safety. I've seen her go violent and think if I had not been there, she would have beat them severely. I know nothing about the signs & symptoms of BPO or crack addiction.  Can someone give me info on these things? Also, son gets kids up & ready for school, feeds them breakfast, sees them on schoolbus, cooks their supper, helps with homework, etc.