My son was diagnosed through Children's Behavior Health June 2009 with schizoaffective DO and Bi-Polar. After 3 visits to their acute facility, he was transferred to a residential facility here in Denver CO. He has been there since Oct 2009. He is currently on Depakote, Abilify, Resperdone, tenax (for his shaking) and Mentocyclin (for his acne).
 After 2 rape accusations, continued outbursts, cutting, seeing demons and waking up on the stairs with bruising that could not be explained we had him admitted. The later of the diagnosis was recently given to us a week ago.(sociopath/narcissistic) 
Last night I woke from sleep from a dream remembering an injury he'd had around 11/2-2yrs old. He knocked his head on an elliptical. The injury was on the right front side of his forehead. He had a baseball size knot for some time and severe bruising. He was not knocked unconscious. He was "ok". With this dream I had and the pictures I found from the incident I had saved due to a family vacation, I've been researching frontal lobe injurys. Some of his issues are described in these papers/documents. 
How do I seek help in getting him tested? Is it possible to repair that kind of an injury from so long ago and help him return to a more normal state? He is my son, and was my only till I married 3 years ago and had the 2 little ones. It was always me an him. My family is afraid of our safety with him as  are the professionals. I have to make this right. He's handsome, smart and has the hugest heart. Please help me. I will do anything to find the answer for him so he can have a life he was suppose to have vs. looking at adult facilities once he turns 18 in November. I beg anyone out there, please help me find a way to help my son. I am continually educating myself and will do so until I find an resolution. Your insight and experience and professional knowledge is greatly appreciated! Thank you from the bottom of a mom's breaking heart watching a gifted son grow into an adult having to be hospitalized to keep himself and society safe. Thank you, thank you!