During the period of about the start of Year 10 - End of Year 11 (in School) I suffered from depression. I didn't tell anyone and kept everything to myself because I didn't, and still don't trust anyone. The fact that I couldn't trust anyone made me more and more depressed and I did 'attempt' suicide twice. The first time I slit my wrists, although I'm un-sure it would of killed me I still had the intention of doing so, and the second time taking paracetamol, which again seemed to have no effect on me, but still had the intention of dying.
 The original start of the BAD depression was a girl problem. Just after finishing my GCSE's the depression seemed to go away however still many times a week I sit in my room and think about how bad I really am.
 Now, since the depression it has changed me a LOT. I used to be a very shy, but once you get to know me, a VERY out-going type of person. I put heaps on trust in people and loved pretty much everyone, due to being brought up on Disney ********, and lies like that. Now, I do not trust ANYONE, my Mum, Dad, Brother, Sisters or Friends because I have come to believe what's the point in a secret? There is no fun or point in a secret if it isn't shared and gossiped. Not only that but I do not share my problems with ANYONE either. When feeling low I keep it completely to myself and attempt to act as if I'm completely natural. When asked, I reply 'I'm just tired...'
 As well as this I've lost all confidence in myself. I wake up every morning hating who I am. I look in the mirror and hate what I see. It's been almost 2 years since I've even held hands with a girl, and I'm 17 years old. I am still a virgin and one of, if not the last people/person to be. This already proves it, that I'm nearly 18 and no girl can be bothered with me...
 I've tried to 'listen' to myself a bit more, and become the person I really wanted to be. I've started to listen to different music, I've grown my hair and took the clothing look differently. HOWEVER, I really struggle to express myself to my friends. For example if they mentioned a band that I now like, I'd probably say they're rubbish. Is this because I'm afraid of expressing myself to my friends rejecting me?
 I have began to take this as a way of life, and now I speak to no-one about anything. I've began to push people away from me a lot and no-one can really be bothered with me any more. Am I believing the right thing? Is no-one to be trusted? I don't want to be a lonely lad stuck in my room for the rest of my life, and I really don't know what to do.
 I'd rather die than anyone I know in real life find this post, and this is exactly a sign of me being afraid of who I am. I look at role-models such as Tupac Shakur, who spoke freely of who he is, and wasn't afraid. It makes me look at myself and want to; but I can't. I'm a very shy and lonely person now, and I can barely lift my head when walking around Public places. I have little to NO confidence any more and I'm basically looking for advice.
 Please, although your help is appreciated requests to go and see a Psychiatrist won't help because I would REALLY struggle to SPEAK these words; never mind writing them. If you like; this isn't so much 'I need a help' Topic, but more of a debate and guidance?
 Again, thank you for ANY help and it really is appreciated. xx