Me and 2 sisters just had a 80th B-Day Party for my Mom. My sisters and I had told the rest of the family (total of 8 of us) that it was just family only. Because, we could not  afford  a bigger room, we could not invite our cusins. She (sister) was afraid we would not have a enough food or room.She did invite my Mom only sibling (our only Aunt). She was upset because it was her children that were not invited. WE have  a niece and our older sister who quite frankly are self center, the world revolves around them (they didn't pay for a DAM THING). They need to invite my nieces friends to every dam family function we have. So, needless to say they showed up at the B-Day Party! WE were livid! After we said "FAMILY ONLY"! I could not believe it!! My cusins couldn't be there but, her friends can be?! Here is where I get out of my mind P.O.ed. My one sister (who helped pay for the party) said that my sister called her and asked if they could come. She said no. Now after the fact she said she never asked her if they could come!! Then I said I don't think it right that they can be there and the cusins couldn't be. Well i ask my niece why they where here and she said MY MOTHER INVITED THEM! I said so she doesn't pay for anything but, she can invite who she wants? She said well they have known Grandma for along time! I was, so what alot of people have known her for a long time! Like her nephews and nieces!  My cusins!! Then she's like am not going to discuse this with you! I wanted to slap her in the face! So, the party ends, if looks could kill! This niece and another niece went home and slammed me on face book! So, my daughter was with them I told her to get home! She comes home doesn't talk to me she's 20, I told her she will not come into my home and act that way towards me. That she can move in with them. If they let her and see if they support her though college like I do! My daughter has gotten so bad! she wants to quit college. We won't let her. So, I call my payee sister that lives in town (its her,me and the free loader live in town) My Mom lives with the free loader. Anyway, I start to question the payee why our cusins weren't invited she states I left it up to Auntie to invite them, I didn't have the addresses, lies she did I know she did! Then it was they all have drinking problems(so do other people that were there).plus the first reason no room! Payee made such a stink about my nieces friends coming that if my daughter heard that they were going to show up she wanted to know.  Anyway I canceled my FB account and quit answering my phone. My Freeloader Sister Got all the Thank Yous from my Mom and I Didn't even get a by when I left!! Payee said Mom will call you and Thank You LOL!!! This is why Jerry Springer has a talk show! I feel used and lied to!! I didn't mind paying for the party, am mad cuz, I was made to look like the bad mean Aunt! I just don't want anything to do with them. My new saying: I can't b around you, I still want to keep the little bit of love I have for you. Am cutting you off!