A Sweet Baby was born to two parents who were very young.  They looked forward to having a baby to love.  Unfortunately for this little baby, both of his parents were very immature and did not know to look after him.  They had very big problems and really did not have the skills that it would take to bring up a child and give him all the things that parents should give their child.  Both parents were addicted to drugs. 
This little baby was not looked after very well because his parents could not give him all the things that a baby needed.  They could not hug and cuddle him when he cried.  They did not feed him when he was hungry.  They forgot they needed to give him medicine when he was sick.  They forgot that he needed to get an education so he struggled through school.   
His parents eventually divorced because their marriage was not built on solid ground and they were from completely different worlds.  That is to say, they had very little in common.  The only link they had was this child they shared. So, throughout their lives they were in contact with each other because of their bond with this child. 
 This baby had two grandparents who loved him beyond words.  The grandparents were very upset all the time because they knew this little child needed love, support, food, medicine and education.   They struggled to give him all the things his parents were not capable of giving him.  They did everything in their power to help him.  They saw him whenever they could but this child's parents decided that they did not want these grandparents in the child's life and made it very difficult for them to see the child. Despite the parents fighting against the grandparents, they persevered and continued to fight to see him, knowing that their involvement might make a positive difference in his life. 
The little baby grew into a young man and the grandparents continued their fight to see him.   
Then the grandmother became very very ill and had to go away to a hospital for treatments.  Every weekend 
she came home to see her grandson, although she was very weak.  The grandson was now twelve years old. 
Later on that year their grandson left his Mother and went to live with his Father.  That winter their grandson came to visit them in Florida.  He seemed to have a very nice time with them, but when he returned home he went back to live with his Mother and he never spoke to them again for five years. 
 It was a very difficult time for the grandparents.  They were in a lot of pain from the betrayal of their grandchild.  This child that they had given so much of their heart and soul to. They could not understand what went wrong.  All of their friends and relatives where in shock, that so much love and care was given to someone and this was what was given in return. 
The grandmother was especially hurt because during her darkest time in her life, when she did not know if she was going to live or die, she had taken the last bit of strength she had left in her, and made sure she spent time with her grandson.  This was what she got in return for all her efforts.  It just was not fair. 
 Then this child came back into the grandparent's life.  He came back and the grandparents were happy.  They wanted everything for him once again.  They wanted him to have everything that he had missed out on.  The lost childhood, the lost parenting, the lost care, the lost education and the lost love.  They embraced this child and tried to forget the pain he had caused them. 
They were willing to give him everything.  They got him his beginners driver's license and a summer job.  They even promised to give him money if he would save his money during the summer.  The child tried to cheat them at the end of the summer.  He told them he saved his money and he really had not.  The child's father said that the child plotted to cheat them and he did not want any part of it.  The grandparents forgave the child and still continued to try and help him. 
They tried to make his life as normal as possible.  When the young man told them he did not want to continue in school they encouraged him to find a trade that would enable him to make a good living in the future.  They gave him all the options available and when the young man decided he would like to get a trade they phoned everyone they knew that might be able to give him this opportunity.  Luckily they found someone who would teach him. ... 
 CON'T ON NEXT POST.