My daughter went through her first (what I call) 'episode' back in 2005. She explained to me that someone was following her, in a green van, everywhere she went. She could hear people talking about her when she was at home. She was distressed and continued to get worse each day she stayed with my husband and I. I called her counselor and left message after message - for 9 days - and my daughters behavior kept deteriorating. She wanted to "go somewhere" but she wouldn't tell us where. We finally had to turn the boltlocks inside the house because it was the only way we could be sure she wouldn't 'escape.' Each day she became more and more aggitated. Finally some people from the state showed up with the counselor. They spoke with my daughter for about 15 minutes and decided she needed to be hospitalized, which she was for @ 6 weeks. No one actually diagnosed her with anything that first time. In fact, she went back to her own apartment and her behavior appeared to be normal. She blamed me for being hospitalized and refused to talk to me about anything that had happened. In 09' something set her off and she began throwing anything that would break out her front door. When I got to her place she was totally unresponsive. I packed a bag for her and took her to the ER. Although we waited for @ 5 hours, someone from the state showed up and they once more hospitalized her. She was away for about 3 months. When she got out this last time, she wasn't the same. She didn't 'recover' as she had the first time. She could no longer live on her own, so she moved in with her big sister. She used to do everything for herself but now she can't. They diagnosed her as having shizoid effective disorder, I believe. It's as though she has regressed. I don't know if she is as helpless as she seems - or she is behaving that way on purpose. She always WAS an excellent manipulator, so I don't know what is what with her. She refuses to talk about her illness. We know she is still seeing and hearing things because we hear her talking to no one when she's alone in her bedroom. Sometimes she will smile and giggle as she 'looks' at something - but she absolutely will NOT admit to any of it, not to us (family) and not to her counselor or shrink. Is denial typical for her illness? Is it also typical for such a dramatic personality shift after an ''episode?' F.Y.I., my daughter turned 29 this past August, although it seems as though she is more like 12 - and there is no history of this disorder on either side of her family. From what I written, does it sound as though she is behaving appropriately within her illness? Am I wrong to try and get her to talk about it ... admit to her behavior? I miss my daughter. The young woman that she was before is simply not 'there' anymore. Thank you for caring enough to read my post!