hello, my name real name is Ashley (in my head i call myself Temperance) this is going to be long your fair warning. i believe i have MPD possibly schzofrinaia (bad spelling sorry) i was also told i also have conversion disorder but i dont now if thats true. this all started when i was eight years old when i started my period on my 8th birthday. it was the scariest day ever for me. i was in horrible pain i remeber hunching over crying the cramping pain went from my lower stomach to my toes when i felt the gush it was everywere. i went through 8 pads every 4 hours. i was taken to the hosptial they gave me a shot i cant remeber what it was my period slowed and i was sent home. they told me i was overracting its totally normal. my periods continued like this for every month for 6 months. then i realized i was different i was still "day dreaming" a extreme amount i told my mom she said its ok your creative. then one day i said no mom there's a man dressed like joker behind you laughing at me.. she said i was tired to go to bed. thats when i decided to keep it to myself. a week after this i blacked out i dont remeber 3 months of my life. apparently i was talking playing and active the whole time. but my close friend told me i was very different and violent. i still continued these bad periods and intense pains as well with the loss in time. at 16 after extreme wieght gain i was diagnosed with PCOS told i couldnt have kids. at this point i would have really heaxy dibilitaing periods or none at all.. im was still dillushonal and still losing time. as i got older things got worse i could here voices saying to cut myself. i did a few times then one voice in my head said "dont". i brushed these off deathly afraid i would be sent away. then in 2006 i was hanging with some close friends i had a growing headache that got worse it felt like it was going to explode we went to drop of a friend and on the way back i blacked out.. not un councous.. when i came back home ( witness's saw me) they saw me wondering around my room looking for things i was confused my actions changed my aditude then i dont know why but my friend whom i diddnt know had MPD( he was more like an acutance meet him once before). called me by my name no answer then he asked what was my name? i answered scarlet. they looked at me dumbfounded then i walked out. i came through as i was in my backyard this was different never did i have this headache with a black out before then my friend came out i was in tears not understanding what was wrong. he stayed with me for 2 weeks after this trying to help me (i begged for them not to take me to the hospital) during that two weeks 5 more personalities came.. at one point i was able to identfy 16 others but 5 became very prominate. there was me, scarlet, fantasy,hope, love, zeal and anarchy. my frined controls his by meditation. if this wasnt scary enough two weeks later the sezures started i kept those secret for three months untill my side vision went out. i thought i needed new glasses. so i went to the eye doctor and he saw somthing funny with my optic nerve and he told me i needed a mri stat he thought i had a tumor.  also two days before i started these horrible nose bleeds. i went to the doctor telling her about sezures and the nose bleeds got my mri and a pituitary tumor was found. the doctors refused to remove it they gave my headache meds cause of my headaches and started me on sizure pill, things got worse i was have 20 sezures a day. and 3 nose bleeds a day. then the praylasis started on my left side only localized in my arm and whole leg including foot (had no refluxes) i was still dealing with the voices, painful periods and the sezures as well. then the chronic pain started from my hips down to my feet. i expirenced extreem weakness and fatigue as well. i was bed bound i couldnt physically saftley function i was on 10 different meds including powerful pain killers. including a anti depresant (didnt work for me) when the doctor couldnt find anything beside the abnormal brain activity and some mild chemical inbalances. they told i was on conversion disorder. they gave me more another anit depressant and said it was in my head. so i was taken off all meds. i can function better now after watching what sets things off and minmizing any stress but im still in chronic pain still haveing all the same symptoms except i accepted the as a part of me. by gods miracle even with all my symptoms i got pregnat after 4 years of activly trying. now i realize i need to figure this out for my daughter my fiance is doing great with helping me. and i would never hurt my daughter but my chronic pain has gotten worse i have permantly lost feeling in my top thigh. everyone including my parents still tell me its in my head. is this all caused by conversion disorder. what do i do...i want to run with my daughter when she starts i want to enjoy one moment with out pain. dose this sound like conversion disorder? is there something i can ask my doctors to test for that may not have yet. is there a good medicine for conversion or do i have more going on in my mental status then i thought. please help me. also if it means anything i have sever dental problems. receding gums and weak teeth.