On April 2, I did not have sex but my boyfriend touched my vulva and 'kind of' inserted his finger down there but I was not really sure if it was in. He might have had semen in his hand, but I'm not sure of that. I was so worried that I could be pregnant. On April 7, I had brown spotting. I thought it was implantation bleeding, but I was told that it was just old blood because I did not have my period in March since my period is irregular. On April 9th I got my period, it was normal. I had it for around 5 days. I was not worried anymore since I got my period. Around May 14th, I noticed my belly got bigger. I usually have a flat stomach. I do not feel heavy at all, my stomach is just looks like there's a small ball inside sometimes. In the morning it's smaller, and as the day goes by it gets a bit bigger. For additional info, it is not hard or anything. I can suck it, and it is very jelly. When I lay down sideways (lets say right), the liquid/or whatever is in it goes to the right too and I have this big glob of fat, whereas the left one is flat. My weight stayed the same (97lbs). I was also naseous for like 5 seconds every hour or something but I never vomitted. I was so scared since I read that these were early signs of pregnancy. I took  two home pregnancy tests and both showed negative. I was a bit relieved. I was not naseous anymore (I think the stress of the pregnancy scare caused the nausea). I started to think that the bloating was just a sign of my period coming. On May 22nd, I got my period, and it was normal. Had it for 5 days. But my stomach still looks bigger than normal.
 Is it possible that I could have been pregnant from the semen? I am a virgin and never had sex. Why is my stomach still bigger than usual? What is the difference between bloating and a pregnant belly? Is the HPT I took reliable? (Just FYI, I took it 5 weeks after the contact w/ my bf's hand. It was also a store brand hpt.) 
 Thank you, I know this is very long, but I really need someone to help me.