I have a question. 
 I was trying to figure out if I have aspergers or if I suffer from long term effects of abuse.
 I grew up in a militant christian home where you are to be seen not heard, you didnt have a voice it was whatever my dads opinion was we had to agree even if we didnt agree. He would pull down our pants and spank us and make us hug him and kiss him and say that we loved him. He did this until my sister at the age of 12 kicked him in the nuts when she fell down when he was chasing her up the stairs. 
 I remember me always having an opinion and it was always different from my fathers, and instead of him embracing   or listening to my opinions I was yelled at, slapped across the face and told to say yes sir whenever I answered. 
 He would force us to hug him all the time and I didnt want to be touched. He would do it alot in front of people to show what a great dad he was.  He would also tickle us and I remember crying all the time to stop and he would never stop. He did not respect my boundaries. 
 Cut to the point, went to a private school for like 8 yrs where the principal did the same spanking routine to me as well as the belt as my dad did so I didnt think it was wrong, just that I was bad and I deserved it. When I moved to a public school in grade 6 I started to realize the first day that what I had experienced was wrong and that is what I feel led me down to the path of destruction.
 I was forced to have sex with a 19yr old when I was 14. I told him no but he didnt stop and I didnt feel I could tell anyone and that I thought that is the way sex was supposed to be. After that every boyfriend I had forced me to have sex and I did because I wanted someone to love me and except me but that was far from what happened. 
 Now I am married and I can barely let my husband touch me. He grabbed me the other day from behind and I lost it, I mean lost it. I told him to stop three times and he wouldnt so I got really upset. He than said what you dont even want to hug me what is your problem?  I am not sure I react this way. I hate being touched period even by my own daughter. I try hard to get past the anxiety and panic of it all but I cant. 
 I am sensitive to touch, and sound the most. 
 I feel that I have gotten past what has happened to me and that I am lucky to have my husband as he is really an amazing person but I really feel like there is something wrong with me. I even feel that something more happened when I was younger and I am not sure if I am blocking it out because since I was a baby I never wanted to be touched or held. There are so many pictures of me pulling away and I dont understand why. Both my sisters are touchy touchy people. What happened to me?