my dad used to abuse my mother. one time he suffocating her and reviving her...me and my sister saw the whole thing i was 7, my sister 3...they've been fighitng like it before i was even born on a continous basis...my grandma, cousins, uncles, aunts from my father's side have been hostile to my mother,me, sister....my dad doesn't get respect from his siblings....
 me and my sister were continuously exposed to my dad's violent acts of rage, emotional, verbal abuse...basically lived under his tyranny.
 my childhood was a living hell...i was afraid of my parents fighting, my dad beating my mother. he would beat me punish me as well for slightest mistakes or if i was in his way. my mother did the same, sometimes she takes out her rage on me.
 the fighting and violence never stopped, my dad wouldn't allow divorce...he has little consideration for other people, and imposes his way of doing things on everyone...if you dont obey he will get violent.
 i am in my early 20s but as i get older and older, i keep remembering my dark child hood, and it hurts. no matter how much i try putting closure...the damage is done. i feel broken....
 i feel guilty for failing to protect my mother. i feel guilty for disappointing her expectations. i feel guilty for my parents struggles as they try "cohabit" unsuccessfully...
 but my dad supports us....i hate him but he is also my father.
 as day goes by i feel less certain about everything. i feel extremely low self confidence as time goes on. i feel constantly embarassed, guilty, ashamed...especially when im in social settings, i always do something embarassing....
 its tough for me to connect with people emotionally...i imitate certain set of expressions but that's where it stops...people tell me i am "on edge", "tense"...i feel empty even when i am at party or with good friends...funny thing is i can never detect sarcasm.....nor can i be sarcastic....
 i always sabatoge myself...when things are looking good i do stupid things to foil a plan...
 i think about killing myself or often tell myself im useless outloud without me even knowing (almost like a tick)...it's almost become frequent like sex fantasy....actually my usual sexual fantasies have been replaced with dark past memories and suicide ideation.
 i find myself crying almost everyday at least once....feel tired a lot, i sleep during day and stay up during night...i sleep about 8 hours.
 sometimes i spend more money than i have...i start buying on impulse and can't stop. i have had my bank account dip to zero...i buy stupid things like expensive clothes and porn mostly....
 i have loss of appetitie, dont like eating as much..
 i only use THC to cope temporarily....i have bene using for 5 months...every single day i would get high about 4~6 times using vaporizer.
 my mother and i have been fighting very frequently..sometimes it gets better, but i **** her off by being lazy....but she can be very dominant...
 i dont have a lot of money so i dont know if i can afford therapy....i've suggested my mother to get help as well as she seems to have very frequent mood swings and her past history with my dad...but she will hear none of it.
 i had major depressive episode 4 years ago.... tried killing myself....
 i dont know what's going on wit hme... i dont know whats real or whats important anymore...just trying to live with this burden and pain....
 i have been unable to find work for 4 months after my graduation, i am going back to school for another degree....