Hi all. I've suffered from anxiety and panic attacks since I was a child. About 15 years ago I started on anti depression Meds for my anxiety/panic attacks because I could not function. 11 years ago  I developed some serious health problems which I continue to suffer from. One of my problems is I have Lupus which exacerbates depression and on top of that I have been on steroids full time for the past 4 years which also exacerbates depression. Along with both those things, not being able to do all the things i want to do because i dont feel well causes me alot of depression also. Last year I went into a very very bad depression due to the steroids. It was the most horrible feeling I have ever had.  I had been on Paxil for 9 years and instead of switching me to a different anti depression, my psychiatrist added abilify which did NOT work, and then to Wellbutrin. That drug took me out of the dark depression I was in but it did not take away my depression. Because of all the things working against fixing the depression my psychiatrist pretty much told me there was nothing else to try so I've been just dealing with being a miserable, angry and upset person. Last nov. I developed a nerve disease which causes an extreme amount of pain (which also messes up brain chemicals). Since then my depression has gotten worse.All I do is cry, hate my life, think about suicide (tho I would never do it because I have a little boy that needs me) , isolate myself, hate my life, who I've become, hopless that i will never b happy again, and how horrible emotionally I feel. I am DESPERATE to get out of this depression and feel HAPPY. If my brain felt better I know my body would also. I went to a new GP about 2 months ago who said the Paxil was not working any longer. He said I could just switch to cymbalta without having to wean off the Paxil or suffer from withdrawal symptoms. I was excited and thought this would be my ticket to feeling happier and being a REAL person again. Well, I've been on the cymbalta and the Wellbutrin now and I feel no different. I feel exactly as miserable and unhappy as I did on the Paxil. Last month i went to a pain dr who said he thinks i should try a new drug called     . i have not started it yet. I saw a friend yesterday who also suffers from depression who looked WONDERFUL and so HAPPY. I asked her what she was taking and she said Celexa. Said it has changed her life and she feels great! My questions are these.....can u switch from cymbalta to celexa without tapering down or having withdrawals ? Do u think the celexa may work differently on me then the cymbalta ? Are there any suggested drugs that may work better for me ? Or, do I just have to accept that until I get off the steroids or even if I got off them, that this is my life and learn how to deal with feeling depressed and emotionally withdrawn and screwed up for the rest of my life. I HATE being depressed... .If someone offered me a million dollars or to feel HAPPY, I would take the FEEL HAPPY and be poor. I am trapped in a miserable life that I don't want to be in!  Is there any hope for me???? Btw, I recently started seeing a counselor but I know my main problem are from the lack of chemicals in my brain. I leave the office feeling sick and having anxiety from crying the past 50 min...Any info would be greatly appreciated.