im with my partner about 5 years now.in the first 2 years or so we had a few arguments that got physical,well him being physical..but in years 3 and 4 it got abit more often,every few months or so.now this year it seems to be every few weeks.it only happens when hes drunk,so after the last time,which was about 2 months ago,he agreed to cut down on the drink,which he did and everything was going great.
             hes been working long hours lately and is tired and streesed,so he took yesterday and today off work.he was drinking all day yesterday,all through the night and today,hes in the pub right now.so i know he will start when he falls through the door tonight.im so sick of it,and when its not happining,im sick of waiting for it to happen.im tired,mentally and physically.. if i wait up for him,i have a small chance of keeping him calm and he might fall asleep.or he will just start on me anyway... if im in bed when he comes in,hel drag me out of the bed and start hitting me,he is very scary,standing over me,shouting at me,he can get very violent.. somtimes i just curl up on the ground,while hes kicking me,i dont move,i just freeze and think about somthing to block it out. the worst is even the next day when hes sober he will say it was my fault,he has never taking blame for for even one time.. its so annoying
              anyway i wont leave him,i love him,as i said this only happens every few months or weeks. besides this,hes great,he realy looks after me,he would do anything for me.besides this abuse,we are realy close,so in love and realy happy.he is a great father and the kids are very close to him.they have never saw him hit me and we never even argue infront of them.
               i am just so tired,i want to scream as loud as i can.i wish i could get in to the car on my own and just drive far far away,just get away for about a week,i feel like i cant breath.
               how can a man be so violent towards a woman?.does this make him feel more of a man,is it a power thing,why does he have to hit?  maybe il get him a punch bag and see if hel take his anger out on that instead.