I am 17 years old and this is my last year of high school. I'm incredibly depressed and I also have social anxiety. The first half of the year was TERRIBLE. I was trying new antidepressants every week, while also trying to attend school as much as possible. Being in a class room triggers my anxiety and depression even more. I feel trapped and can't focus on anything the teacher is saying. I told my therapist and school psychologist that there really isn't a point to me going to class. I'm just suffering and I'm not getting any knowledge out of the lessons. I understand they want me to still try going to class because they said I should fight the anxiety/depression so that I don't get worse. But I have gotten worse. I only show up to school now to pick up material that I've missed and to hand in homework assignments. My guidance counselor is just trying to get me into school at this point so I don't get too many absences. 
I'm really nervous about my future now because everyone is trying to get me into class and I simply cannot do it. Yesterday I felt completely trapped because all of a sudden my school psychologist, nurse, and guidance counselor were all forcing me to go to math. I started having a panic attack and there wasn't anyone I could go to because they were all telling me to go to class. I was on the verge of tears when someone finally gave in and I immediately called my father to pick me up. I'm so worried about what's happening to me because everytime a situation like this arises my depression and anxiety gets worse. They think by getting me to class I'll eventually get used to my surroundings, but I get even more upset because I feel so sick. My schedule is very short for the second half of the year and until I find the right medicine I want to be able to do my work independently. I understand it might be difficult teaching myself math, but even my mother suggested getting me a tutor. 
I really want to be able to go to class, but everytime I do my depression increases. I'm worried about going to college now because everyone is pressuring me and telling me that I won't be able to unless I get to my classes in high school. I don't want to ruin my life, yet I think I need more time to find an antidepressant that works before I feel any better. Please is someone could just reassure me or give me advice I'd be very greatful. I feel so alone at this point because it seems like everyone is fighting against me and making me feel worse.