At the age of 15 I was diagnosed with PSD due to being involved in two auto accidents within two weeks of each other (neither of which I was driving). Growing up everyone just thought I was a spoiled brat because I was an only child and the apple of my grandparents eye as I got older it seemed to turn from brattiness to hateful rage.I have never harmed anyone but I'm sure I have hurt feelings alot along the way. I never realized this rage and anxiety could actually be due to depression, I've never laid in bed for days and cried or had any symptoms of what I thought to be sadness. I have been treated for anxiety with xanax for almost 10 years now and prescribed to take as needed not to exceed a certain amount daily. About three years ago my doc put me on Wellbutrin 150 mg per day to help me stop smoking cigarettes, up until this point I didn't realize I was depressed. After about two weeks on the Wellbutrin I felt great. I was positive, life was looking up, I started going to the gym on a regular basis and LOST weight while putting the cigarettes down and going through a rather nasty divorce. After all was said and done with the divorce, the kids and I ( i have two a daughter 14 and son 6) finally found a house to buy and moved in and got settled you would think things would keep looking up. It seems like when life calmed down I ampted up with my rage again so I went to my Doctor and explain this to him. The first line of treatment was to up my Wellbutrin to 300 mg per day, this worked but this time only for a few months and my rage became off the charts. I didn't feel like I had control anymore so I again went to my doctor who then added 150 mg of Effexor to my daily regiment. This didn't work at all, I didn't have rage anymore but I didn't feel anything, I didn't care about the gym so I gained 20 lbs of the 40 I lost back and I didn't remember anything, I could talk to someone one day at length and argue with them the next that we did not have a conversation at all. I ofcourse did not realize I was forgetting things because I truely didn't remember. One day someone said something about a phone conversation we had the day before that I didn't remember so I argued with them, they told me to prove they were telling the truth to look at my phone log on my cell phone and to my suprise we had in fact talked at length for over ten minutes all of which time was completely lost to me and my memory. I took myself off the effexor after this. Now three months later and the rage is coming back but what can I do that will keep me at myself and not a zombie? Prozac is also not an option, it caused sexual side effects. I am really at a loss with this. It's very frustrating