I've been going through some blogs and decided I should join one so that my brain is not just talking to myself. 
 Some history about my experience. 
I've been on Paxil and Cipralex since 2008. I switched from 20mg Paxil to 10mg Cipralex (equal dosage between the two drugs) in 2010. I recall feeling an immediate affect a few hours taking Paxil. My doctor essentially said my serotonin levels where down to its bootstraps! While on Paxil, I had short term memory loss, low energy and had no libido whatsoever. When I switched meds I do not recall I had much withdrawal symptoms from Paxil. The symptoms when I went onto Cipralex was completely opposite of what I've been reading online about side effects. Instead of gaining weight, I lost weight. Instead of losing energy, I gained energy. Instead of hell, I found myself getting my life back. I suppose I am one of the lucky ones who made the right decision for myself (after long research and consults with professionals). 
 I've been on Cipralex for 2 years now on 10mg, my doctor and I feel its time for me to get off of it. The plan for me is to essentially cut my dosage in halves over 2-4 week period at a time and if I feel bad withdrawal symptoms to the point where it is affecting my normal life. I will go back on the previous dose until the symptoms subsided and do 3/4th of the dosage for 2-4 weeks. I've sometimes stayed on my decreased dosages for longer than 4 weeks because I felt like I had to and/or I was lazy to deal with the symptoms. I usually forget how long it took me to not feel the symptoms. But I am confident that I will come off of it. Although I am terrified for the possibility to gain weight and lose energy. 
 Currently, I am on vacation in Thailand with sun and ocean. I have provided myself with the best possible environment where I can give myself to come off of the drug completely. And because this is the home stretch, I am VERY aware of the this situation. I am now on day3 of 0mg and STILL feel the wooziness, the dizziness, sleepiness, some nausea and some body ache, but no brain zaps yet. Overall the best way to describe how I'm feeling is a mild mix of being drunk, high and having motion sickness. I want to log my experience daily because even though I'm on vacation, I still feel I need to reach out such that I am not only talking to myself in my head. :) 
 My question to whomever came off of Cipralex , How long did it take for all the withdrawl symptoms to subside on 0mg? Did you gain/lose weight? Did your energy level increase/decrease? 
 Thank you all so much for your time. 
Lady_ofthe_house