I have been friends with my best friend for about 10 years.  We are both in our 50's.  We "broke up" but got became friends again 1 year ago.  We have begun telling each other everything about ourselves.  All of our secrets.  
 One thing that I always felt guilty about was that when I was 10 and my cousin was 12 (we are both girls) she fingered me and gave me my first orgasm.  She had always been my favorite cousin because we were closest in age.  I idolized her.
 When she did this, I was shocked at how good it felt.  She told me that a girl in her neighborhood had showed it to her.  
 When I went back home, I did the same thing to 3 of my friends.  I didn't force them, but I would say I was manipulating.  There was one young girl who was 2 or 3 yrs younger than me, and she told her parents who then called my parents.  It got in trouble and was grounded.
 I have always felt guilty about doing this to these young girls.  As I became a teenager, I became interested in boys and never had another homosexual experience.
 I don't think that my cousin knew what she was doing or meant to harm me.  We have never talked about it to this day.
 I didn't mean to harm those young girls.  I have oftened wondered if I scarred them for life.  We moved and I never saw or heard from any of them since.
 I feel terrible about my past,
 Last night I confessed to my best friend, and she didn't seem surprised or shocked.  She said she never did that with any of her girlfriends, except once she and another girl looked at each others breasts when they were nine or ten.
 I have confessed this to a couple of therapists.  Both said it was abnormal to go so far as to have orgasms but that most children play around out of curiosity. 
 I wanted to get my friends opinion of me and what happened.  I called her today and she hasn't called me back or emailed me.  She could be busy.  A part of me worries that her feelings have changed towards me and she thinks I'm bad.  
 Am I an abuser?  Was what happened that strange?  I rarely speak to my cousin.  She is grown, married and has 3 kids.  She is now best friends with my sister.  They treat me like I don't exist.
 I did kiss a couple of girls when I got drunk and thought of making love to them when I was in my 30's, but it never got farther than french kissing.  All my other sexual experiences have been with men.  I am attracted to men but sometimes attracted to women.  I am not attracted to children.
 I feel guilty and bad for those young girls that I abused.  I can only hope that they are ok.
 Could someone give me their opinion of my experiences?