Is it something I should be concerned about where I'm starting to remember things and can't tell if it was just in my head or a real event more and more or is it just going to pass?  Like the other day for example I realized a whole part of my life I was remembering was just in a dream I had when I actually thought about how illogical it was.  That was the first time that ever happened for me where memories of a dream actually replaced real memories although I've had it happen before a lot where I couldn't tell if a dream was just a dream or a thought was just a thought.  I was thinking of telling my psychiatrist about that when I see him in a couple of days if I can remember.
 Also my relationship of four years has fallen apart where I basically had to cut off all contact because she would just start getting upset when I'm just sitting here doing nothing (which she starts saying abusive things to me even if I try to be really nice which I would try to ignore because I know she can't help it but eventually I would say abusive things back which is why I would just walk off before it came to that but that doesn't work either because then she starts threatening to kill herself so I'm basically trapped) and this started happening around the time I started taking medication.  She thinks the medication caused me to lose the ability to express myself but she has mental illness as well.  I know there's not much to go on there but that's basically it in a nutshell, do you think the meds caused it or my mental illness or just her mental illness and she's getting worse or a combination of those?  Am I just better off with things this way or should I try to fix it?  I love her a lot but in the time I've not talked to her at all I have lost a LOT of stress.  I probably won't have another relationship for years if ever because of how I grew up and this one happened against all odds and I don't feel like spending the time to get to know someone entirely all over again.  My friends say it won't take years to do this but I found you can't trust a lot of people even after knowing them for years.