Ok so a little back story. Met my husband a little over 6yrs ago. We lived clear across the country from each other & 4mo after we met he left his life there to be with me. Everything was ok for the first few yrs. but he couldn't find a job & he truly couldn't adjust here. Luckily I have a high paying job so money wasn't an issue. Then I got pregnant. After that it was decided...mostly by me that he would become a SAHD. He became a recluse. More & more depressed & angry at life. He felt like a loser. It drove a huge wedge btwn us. Because we stopped communicating & I felt he blamed me. Then last March a coworker confessed he had been in love with me for over a year. I was flattered & angry at husband cuz I had had a miscarriage months before & he didn't seem to care. I spoke to this guy for THREE days. Harmless stuff & i had made it very clear I would never cheat. Well on the 3rd day hubby found a message. He flipped out, threatened divorce then agreed to put it behind us & move on. it's been almost a year now & things weren't always easy. But I was patient & this year was turning out great. Until a few days ago. I was looking to see if the cable ppl had messaged him & up pops a list of conversations with a bevy of females. I was stunned. I had absolutely no idea. No gut feeling. It was a fake profile with fake pics & a different name but nonetheless those were his words to them. Mostly "hey your cute do you have pics?" I left the house & made sure he knew I found it. He freaked out. Said he was sorry. Said it was the depression. That he created the account because he just wanted some kind of reaction to his words. I will say that he is very much affectionate towards me & he is always complaining that I ignore him & he feels like a 3rd wheel. Like his presence doesn't exist in this house. But we have a very hyper 3yr old & btwn Her & working full time & I'm always a zombie. I thought he would understand that I do love him but I'm just exhausted. Apparently not. So now I have agreed to give it a chance. I told him we would work on it & move forward. We are 3wks away from moving into a new home. But I feel like I'm going crazy. I don't want to turn into that jealous crazed stalker wife. I know he loves me. I know he has been severely depressed for 4yrs but to me that isn't an excuse for this. I guess I just want to know if I can get past this. Or how.