My boyfriend is a very loving man. He's hard-working and strives for making our lives comfortable. He truly loves me and tells me how much he appreciates me, all the time. However, there is a side of him that I do not know how to deal with. I can ask (or what I think are) simple questions or make simple statements and he will instantly get angry and start saying hurtful things. Ex: He came home yesterday from work and said that he saw his buddy outside about to go to the store so he let him use his vehicle (even though his buddy had a car). So, I asked, "Why does "Buddy" have your car?". (Thinking that maybe Buddy's car was broken or something). He immediately replies, "Cuz I want to!..why do I need to have a reason to let someone use my car?!...Always asking stupid questions!!!...I'm sick of this ****!! And so on and so forth. All of our arguments are stemmed from how he talks to me when he is angry and why he is angry over something so trivial. That's where ALL of our arguments begin. Another example: I told him that I understand that he works long hours but that our intimate times are becoming less and less and that I was concerned and didn't want us to lose that. And then......"I can't do nothing right with you!!...I always have to hear about what I'm doing wrong!!!....Maybe you need someone who can satisfy you more than me!!!...on and on. And he won't stop; he continues muttering hurtful and resentful things and when I get upset or emotional because of what he's saying or how he's acting, then he starts with telling me how I cry too much, I'm too sensitive, all I do is whine..just to name a few.  I'm starting to walk on eggshells and second guess what I'm going to say before I say it. His "Fight or Flight" response is Flight; to not help rectify the problem, but to condemn it and say that he'd rather let me be free if I can't handle the person that he is. He's in total denial and I can't attempt to help him without him wanting to throw in the towel. Our relationship would be ideal if it weren't for these exaggerated outbursts and being that he projects the anger to me and doesn't see that it's a problem, I know that he won't entertain the idea of anger management techniques, etc. What do I do?!  I'm so confused.