Hi. Im not sure what really happened to me. my husband and i have been fighting lately about small things. But whats difficult is we are not really fixing the problems . we just let it pass by . but i cant forget them. so everytime we fight my reactions get stronger (i cry harder, shout louder,) and i feel more stressed than before. yesterday we fought again. i was really irritated bec its the same reasons all over again. so i cried again and i was shouting and i started throwing things . which i didnt do before. it was like i was a container thats already full of water and is already spilling. i just cant take it. i cried again . i explained what was happening to me to my husband. i told him that i cant take all the stress and that i felt falling apart already. he consoled me then i stopped crying but after a few minutes i realized that i cant move on my own..  my husband was talking to me and he was saying sorry and all. but i cant respond even if i want to. i cant even communicate thru actions. it was like i was trapped inside my body. my husband thinking that i was just tired of crying and because i was wet with my tears and sweat he decided to give me a bath . he thought i was only sad thats why i was not responding . but i really cant do anything. i understand him i can see him but i cant respond. i got really scared inside. my husband realized then that there must be somthing wrong. he tried to tickle me to get my attention. and i really thought upon seeing what he was doing that i will be able to move. but his tickles didnt have any effect on my body(first time). he got nervous so he poured water on top of my head . and thank god i was able react to the cold water. it was like i was able to breath after a long time. then i fell to the floor bec a felt my body was so weak. my husband caught me and was scared of whats happening. i was still having difficulty speaking. but after a few short breaths i was able to say his name. while taking a bath then i was twiddling my thumbs. my hands and i cant stop. it was really hard for me to communicate. after that i continued moving my hands  like what anxious persons do. inside im aware of what im doing but still unable to control it. after that my husband and i went out to relieve some stress. he was really worried of what was happening to me. we both thought that i wont be able to speak again. but little by little then i was able to talk again . word by word and then to complete sentences. by the end of the day i felt normal again. though it still concerns me . i dont know what  happened to me. i dont want to feel that way again.