hi my name is Sam, im 16 years old and im new to this sort of thing, but im loosing places to turn to.
 Im healthy Welsh lad, with tonnes of friends and extremely sociable. Im gay and currently single at the moment but on opinions of others, im actually quite attractive, nice guy.
 my biggest problem at the moment is not knowing why i find myself soo depressed everyday, to the point where sometimes i find myself preferring spending hours jus laying on a bed, rather than seeing or talking to anyone.
 ive known i was gay for over 3 years now, ive told my parents and friends about it and they all seem happy with it, however since coming out, i still find myself unable to talk to my family at all. i have a very close but big family and yet even though they know, i find myself sitting there with nothing to say or do and just sat there still.
 i tend to blame this for all the other things i feel down and depressed about becuase there are too many to name one by one. it's just i dont feel i can open up to anyone becuase im given impression that my family dont want to hear it. maybe im wrong, but it drags me down soo much i feel like i hate them and ive always told myself the first chance i get, im moving away from everyone becuase its dragging me down soo much that i dont tend to want to go out with my friends anymore or have a relationship with anyone or anything becuase i see my friends and envy them and think 'what id give to have thier life and finally be free of mine' .
 i used to be able to deal with this and even started convincing myself i could try to live life with no one but myself becuase it's the way i feel i am right now, even though i have all these people around me, but now it's getting alot more difficult. i feel as if i can no longer wait for the time to come where i can move away and ive started considering and being close to thinking things which no 16 year old boy with a family and friends like mine should ever think.
 As i said there alot more things that add to my constant depression but i feel these are the main reasons. all i ask for is sometome to talk to or who can offer me any advice on what to do (or if possible a switch your life medication i can take) becuase the bottom line is im a 16 year old guy whos already convinced himself and planning a life ahead of lonliness, which to me and others ive tried to tell, is a sad life.
 thanks to anyone who can offer me help.
 Sam