Not sure if I came to the right forum but I figure that the stress and how it is starting to sweep over me this would be my best bet. I just need help and a better outlook on everything. So I guess I should give you my story. I had been an employee of Taco Bell for over 12 yrs. I opened often and since the area I worked in wasn't the best when no one else was there my husband would check the restrooms and lobby area while I checked the back. Then when he knew I was safe he would go on his way. My immediate manager knew that I did this cause I told her so. She never warned me I could be fired over my husband entering the store before opening. 
 About four weeks ago my husband dropped me off for work and ended up coming back because he had fallen really sick and needed our cell phone to call his boss. When I opened the door to give him the cell phone he ran to the restroom. He was sick to his stomach. Right after he got sick he went out to the car. I told my boss about this incident and once again nothing was said to me about a chance if being fired. A week later they sat me down and said I had broke policy by allowing my husband to use the restroom before opening. This was a devastating hit. I have filed for unemployment but it can take up to four weeks for answers. I have applied for many jobs and had two interviews and one phone interview. Nothing has come up yet. I feel list being home everyday while my husband works.
 The other thing that has started to get to me is that finically my husband doesn't make enough to carry all the burden of our bills. I wasn't worried but it is getting closer to the end of the month and I am starting to feel hopeless. I have tried applying for local help but without a child, most places won't help. I already have two loans, and really don't want another or more fincial burden. I am just feeling overwhelmed and helpless. Please if anyone has any advice to keep me from losing my mind or becoming seriously depressed I would be grateful. Also all prayers are greatly appreciated.