My ex-  gf   was living with my son and i for two years, everything was going pretty well for most of the time , although she did seem kinda depressed and it was like she was allways thinking really hard. never relaxed, we had a fallen out right at about two years 2 months after a arguement about something lame , she would never agree with me or my son , but she never did have any anger problems which was nice... well after trying to talk with me a few times regarding the arguement she gave up ... she told my 13 year old son that she was going to be moving out but not to let me know about it , well thats not to cool with me so i gave her the cold shoulder and let her leave.
About 3weeks later she called me and wanted to talk and see if we coud reconcile so we both agreed to give it a try ,
so over the next few months we gave it a try . but i made it very clear to her right from the start if shes seeing anyone shes need to break it off , and i would do the same ..... , youl never beleive what happend next , I stayed at her place one night she called me and wanted to see me so we met up and i ended up staying at her house and we made out and layed in the bed she keep pushing me away allnight so i kept my cool untill the next morning when she took her phone in the bathroom with her tying to hide it from me .. after she finished her shower I confronted her about seeing somebody she said know know theres nobody else ,,,,, I said yea right and told her to leave me along and this will be the last time i every see her stay the f%%%%k out of my life ..............Well about 1 hr later as she went to the airport on her way to Denver she texted me saying theres nobody else and that i hurt her really bad making claims like that , and the reason she keptpushing me away was because she was attacked while jogging the month befor  and that sex was scratched of her list from that day on she said she filed a police report ....basically saying she got raped....
well now I feel really bad for what i said to her ..... guess what i checked with the police... no report she lied
I wish i found this out long ago it would of saved me a lot of cash that i helped her out with during what i thought was her recovery process... well to make a long story short and its a very long 8 month ordeal that iv been through  some of the most amazing lies iv ever heard..  one thing to keep in mind is that her h1b visa would be expired in jan 2010 and this all went on the 5 months prior to that day. I found out that she was seeeing another guy ,, but get this she would be texting me while with him saying shes thinking of me and that she misses me xoxo , but everytime she would stay with me no sex of course ' she was healing and i respected that I did my research on how i could support her after her rape ...Jan she finds herself pregnant but the guy doesnt want anything to do with a baby , i asked her about the guy she says theres no future with him and than she gets an abortion..... within a week after this she goes to Vegas to do a fake marriage to someone her g frd set her up with well after this goes bad she ends up married to some guy but the other people involved never send the papers to the immigration so after a few weeks she gets worryed so she backs of of the whole thing , i help her out with the annulment paper work ,,,,,,she spend the next 3 weeks with me as i try to rescue her from her mess ,, but i find it hard to trust her at all so i contact the guy that got her prenant on facebook and ask him if its over between her and does he know about the abortion , one other thing i did say to him is does it seem like maybe she was trying to get pregnant .......
wow after coming home from church sunday i stoped at my house to grab something as she waited in my truck she went through my phone and found out that i contacted the guy on facebook ,,,,,,omg she was in shock,,,,, she sent him a text from my phone ,,, saying i made this all up i hate her and i want to destroy her life,,,,,,    like it was from me .... well the guy knew i didnt send that to him , but he did say it did open his eyes to a lot that went ont between them ...... iv seen her a few days after this and she was so depressed she was just laying in bed for days since than she changed her phne number again shut down her facebook and gmail accounts ,,,,,, I really hope she doesnt hurt herself I think shes staying with her brother now but havnt heard from her in 2months now ,,,, I have a bad feeling that she may try to do another sham marriage and get deported for this I mean you can only get away with so much untill the sky falls , after all thats went wrong with her will she ever learn unwholesome choices lead to suffering .....