Hello all,
 I feel that people around me are getting more and more superficial, selfish and sometimes downright idiotic. On the public transport, on the road, on TV, politicians, telemarketers, store clerks, etc.
Tonight on a tightly packed train, with people standing up like sardines, a passenger literally walked from one end of the train to the other, presumably to avoid having to walk too long to his car once he gets off. It’s been seen before. Once he reached me, I couldn't help but tell him how I thought he was an idiot to bother like 500 people to avoid walking 100 yards outside.
Each time I do something like that (it happened maybe 5 times in the last year), the culprit and the people around me look at me as if I was the one at fault. As if everybody else’s behavior was normal. Tonight, by luck, a lady witnessed my 'performance' for a second time. She then started to talk to friends around her about me and about how she would not accept being talked to like this, etc.
It has now been many hours since then and I'm sitting at home still with a feeling of frustration. There probably is a little bit of embarrassment and shame about all these people seeing me like this, probably also a bit of fear that it could have degenerated, but it's mostly about the irresistible need to meet these people again and explain at length why I did it and that I only wish to be treated in the same respectful way I treat others and they should expect the same. They should be ‘on my side’.  I don't walk around a packed train, I yield my seat to everyone, I don't listen to my iPod too loud, on the road I'm careful and courteous, I put my hand when I cough, you know.
Right now, it's like I desperately need to 'make things right again'. I know it is a lost battle and nothing I say will change anything about so many people's behavior, but I can't help telling these people what I think once in a while. I also know that it's not a big deal if some people in the world don't like me or judge me wrongly, but it's hard to convince myself of it. I don't think everybody should have the same opinion as I do, I can live with diversity, but there are things about which I know I'm 100% right.
Here's what I know about myself this far (if it could help you help me :-):
	I do suffer from a deep cynism against the society in general.
	I do have somewhat high blood pressure and anger issues (non violent, so far).
	I do get mildly paranoiac, always planning for the unexpected.
	I absolutely hate being wrong and I try very very hard not to be.
	I feel the need to be liked by everyboy.
	I am somewhat perfectionist.
	I am very resistant to change.
  My questions to the good people of this forum are: 
-	How can I remain calm and ‘zen’ while being pushed in the train, cut or followed too closely on the road or when someone invade my ‘bubble’ on the public transport ?
-	How can I convince myself that I can't change these people and trying will only end up in me being frustrated?
-	Is there a simple trick to put oneself above all that petty stuff and just be, without the need to ‘convert the lost’ ?
 Thank you for your time.
T