I'm 29 and my life has amounted to nothing.  Although I am a Christian and I have a relationship with God, most of the time it has not felt like it.  I have never had any idea of God's plan for my life or made many goals for my future.  Infact the only goal I've ever had was to get married before I was 30 and have some sense of direction and purpose in life.  I have none of these things and I guess it has just left me feeling fed up and dead inside.  
 I could really get into my life story but I'm sure you'd rather I didn't...but to be brief I haven't had the best childhood, felt very isolated, was bullied etc. but even so I always knew there were people far worse than myself.  
 But right now at almost 30, I still live at home with my parents, still no idea of what job I would like to do, have no motivation or desire or purpose to work anyway.  
I have travelled in the past and enjoyed that and if I had more money I would definitely do more of that.  I have friends and I've had relationships with women but I'm still not married.  Although I've been sexually active, I'm technically still a virgin because I wanted to save intercourse for marriage with my future wife.  And I'm finding that whole process incredibly difficult to deal with now as I see more and more friends getting engaged and married.  
 I'm starting to lose faith that God has a plan for my life.  I know it's ultimately down to me to make decisions and plans to orchestrate a future but therein lies the problem.  I pray about it that God would maybe reveal to me what it is he wants me to do, but nothing is ever revealed to me nor do I discover anything new when I search my heart or explore different avenues.  Maybe it's just about making a decision and sticking with it but that is something I've never managed to do either.  I think being a Christian also inevitably makes you aware that this earthly life really does not matter in the perspective of eternity.  So does it really matter if you don't become CEO or managing executive or the lawyer or the top banker in the city? etc etc.  In other words I think what I'm saying is that I don't see much purpose or meaning to this life!  Being in work or working for someone/something and so on means that you will be contributing positively to society, I'm not sure if I really want to contribute to this society and the world!  I know this sounds selfish but I think your own person problems and issues and personal life in general are far more important than achieving great things in a career.  I've come to the point where I'm not that bothered about achievements or accolades in a work sense.  I think it's always been more important getting to know yourself better rather than getting ahead in a particular career.   
Afterall, your job/career is not your identity..
 We're not here for long in this life, so might as well just enjoy doing the things that make you happy.  Which for me, definitely DOES NOT involve sitting behind a desk and computer in a some depressing office.  But then there are those who will say, well that's life and sadly most people will have to endure that because that's how things are.  You see, I think what is significant of course is that I don't have responsibilities or bills to pay or a family to support as I still live with mine!  I know, so I've never been forced to work because I HAVE to, so my motivation isn't the best.  
 I'm sure I'm coming across as self pitying, spoilt person and that's probably true to some extent.  But then I wonder how much is due to mental illness.  I have been diagnosed with depression in the past and I have taken so many anti-depressants now, I've lost count.  None of them have ever worked for me and I have always felt the same, hopeless and fed up with life.  I have seen many counsellors, therapists over the years as well and infact am seeing someone now.  Again, that has not brought about change.  I know you're going to say it's up to me to change...but I just feel so....stuck all the time, it's like I do want things to change but I just can't seem to "unstick" myself.
 It's hard for me to have summed all this up and obviously there's alot going on here and no easy answers but I'm sure there are others out there who feel the same way.