Hi! I hope you don't mind me writing to you two. I wanted to send a pm but still can't figure out the dumb thing! Besides, they only let you have 500 characters, which would be hard for someone like me!
I was drawn to something you both said to another poster. You both said you had been cutters. My daughter has been cutting herself for at least a year now. She just turned 15. Our whole world turned upside down this last year and I'm still struggling to understand and know how to act and what to do. She has a good family who loves her very much. Her struggles has been mostly with her peers and how she's been treated. She's a deep kid and has been hurt deeply by her peers for years. We didn't even know how bad things were till this last year. We've moved her to a different school and she seems happier but is not completely out of the woods. She still struggles with depression and has a low self esteem. In some ways, though, she seems to be doing better than I am. I can't seem to move forward. I feel stuck in all these feelings of guilt, fear, confusion but most of all grief. I still don't understand. It hurts to see these scars on my beautiful daughter. One in particular is pretty bad. She cut someone's initials into her when we made them stop seeing each other. We felt this person was dangerous for her. Now everytime I see this scar, it reminds me of this person. She will have to carry this for the rest of her life and it will be a constant reminder to her and her dad and I of this horrible time and this person in particular. I worry that people will be shocked and judge her when they see this scar and the others, before they even get to know the wonderful girl she is. She, who so wanted to be accepted by her peers, has now made it even harder for herself, and it breaks my heart. Maybe if this wasn't my daughter I could handle it better, but this is my baby.Every time I see these scars, I have to look away. It hurts so bad. Will this ever get better? I could have accepted this better if this was the result of an accident or something, but to know that my baby deliberately hurt herself is SO hard for me. It's my job to protect my kids and I feel like I failed her terribly. I didn't see the signs soon enough. I wish I could have stopped this before it got to this point. I don't know how to stop feeling this grief. I just want her to be ok. I want her to be accepted and loved by others. I want her to be happy. Is there any advice or hope that you can give me? I feel so alone. I don't know any other parents going through this. The odd thing about it is, my daughter seems to have more around her who are cutters and understand. My age group doesn't seem to understand. I've actually lost friends from this. I guess it's just too deep for some people. That's another thing. My daughter knows quite a few kids like her who are cutters and it worries me that it sends the wrong message that it's ok. I also worry that they feed off of each other. I tried to find a support group for parents of cutters and could find nothing. That's why I wrote to you two. I was hoping you could help or give advice. I feel so alone in this, and still feel a lot of grief. I don't know how to move forward. Thanks for listening to me. God bless you two and I hope you guys are doing well.