Hi guys before I get into a post I just want to say this is an excellent forum. Well Im 21 year old and for a good portion of my life Ive been struggling with myself. In the the young teen years I started to struggle with fitting in and around 15-16 after being expelled from my first high school for stealing a girls christmas money while she wasnt looking my parents decided i see a therapist. They put on me on meds for depression but they just seemed to leave me more withdrawed. I had no drive, In college there were small improvment socially but nothing major and ended up with quite the marijuana habit( 8 blunts a day) and then after my freshman year I dropped out and worked for about a year then I met a 27 year old female who I fell in love with for 3 years and just broke up with recently.
       Since the middle of that relationship I started changing tremendously spiritually getting closer to my higher power. The changes are amazing to me when Im close with my higher power Im complete, its like all the social and mental issues go away im so intune with myself and the life of party with people. but I have noticed those periods are short lived they come and go in groups of days until two weeks ago like theyde only come for 5 days at the most. Since like 16 I have had this idea to prove myself as a gangster even though im from a rich suburb. i started hanging in the "projects" around 18 and lived there with my girl in our own place for about 3 years, before moving back to my parent house after my girl went to jail . During this time I was into a lot of criminal activities up till last november(07) when I was arrested with like 3 others some serious charges. I was taken to jail and spent 12 days in there.
       I was always nervous about jail because I knew people in there were very attentive and caught on to every little thing people did, I didnt want to end up fighting so I kept praying I could maintain my spirtuality in there and to my suprise I did I felt super intune with myself , other inmates, and wat was going on around me(I was in dorm of about 100 inmates) and after I was bonded out I kept saying to myself that If I could hold my head in there I could do it anywhere. But since Ive gotten out Ive been in and out of the light and the darkness. When Im feelin bad its like it takes all my strength just to hold my head up and go to the store, and during these periods i am very out of tune with my self, which kills me inside cause I consider myself a very spiritual person.
      Up until today I had been having the best consistent period of my life. for 2weeks I was more confident, more intune, more communicative with others then I had ever been in my life. I even was able to convince my mom and psyc doc i didnt need medication. In my drug recover program( so I dont go back to jail) I was the life of the program and convinced myself I dont want to smoke again. This 2 week period differered from other "good periods" in the past cause for the 1st time I felt a true sense of purpose , where as in other occasions I was just putting all my energy to stay in the "present." The way I achieved this 2 week period of happiness is by constantly being aware of my anger, pride, social issues, worrysome thoughts, and sexual thoughts. 
     Everytime I would get even the slightest incling of negative thoughts or feelings, I would envision a book or a light and I would say in my mind I fear living for that(watever negative emotion it was). by a good portion of my mind on the light or book in my head I was able to communicate with other so effectivly and for the 1st time I felt like I could read peoples actions and emotions, which I feel was due to my constantly being of my own. Then yesterday I wrote a song about my girl to myself and it brought out  a lot of sad feelings from the breakup that just threw me of my game. Today I broke down in front my mom and finally agreed to try medication. 
     I just couldnt believe that after feeling confident for that long I would plunge back down, and the 1st time I feel I may have a medical issue, which is hard on my pride. I mean how can someone be a such a superstar one day totally intune with life and then sad the next? I was wondering if any of you doctors had an idea on what I might have and if so what kind of medication and/or treatment you would recommend? I also feel that although I have had a lot of ups and down I have pretty much taught myself how to live with self and other and have learned to control my emotions very well except during these negative periods. However I feel with these negative days where its so hard to focus on what Im thinking that it causes me to feel out of tune with reality and I start feeling negative. What I also would like to know is with medication will I still be able to grow in those aspects(self socially) that I feel ive done so well with on my own(without medication) while taking medication? 
       On good day I feel totally in control of my thoughts and emotions and feel I can achieve anything,Im the livest guy in the building(not to brag but I notice it) , the ladies love me,the guys love me, and I know how to handle the ups and downs of life. However the bad day are like the exact opposite no focus on what going on , I feel paranoid about others, I cant access my thoughts clearerly, and cant hear my inner voice. It hurts cause I notice and I know people notice. I have stopped smoking weed(4 yea rdaily habit) and cigarettes(2 year habit) for a month and given up masturbating for 2 weeks(It is said to increase your creative energy by staying abstinent from it) but I know its not due to those habits. The one thing I know is Im determined to help myself and I feel if im just able to stay consistent with good days(It would be better to call them stable day, where im intune with life no matter what happens). 
    I personally dont know jack about medications but I feel aderoll may be the med for me, It is said to help people focus consistently and feel intune consistently and I feel I could benifit, but who am I to say. Im sorry this is so long but I feel its neccasary for you helpul people to get the best idea of which way you feel I need to travel from here in terms of what I may have, medication, and therapy. I appreciate everyones suggestions on this. Also after probation should I go back to smoking pot or just quit cold turkey from here on? I really enjoy weed I feel it helps me just relax and go with the flow