I am 21 year old and belong to a traditional family. I was a bright student in my school and also in college. I have completed my graduation. My parents are now looking for guys for my marriage they want me to say yes so that they can final the relation but i need time to polish myself. I want to get a job first. And my other issue is that i have a bf since 4 years. We are from same community and love each other a lot. But the problem is that he is still studying like me.. He is also in search of a job, we have many dreams and want to fulfil them. I cannot open my relationship infront of my parents because we both are doing nothing and my parents will never agree. My parents hate my bf and his family but he is not a bad boy he loves me a lot. We want time so that we can get good jobs and make my parents agree for this relation but i am unable to make my parents understand my point at this time. My bf is very upset. he dont want to lose me and same with me. Recently one guy who is a surgeon wants to marry me and my parents are very happy with this relation but i dont want to marry him. I just want to marry my bf. I have my exam in june and at any cost i want to clear this exam but i am unable to concentrate in studies. I am facing many problems with my bf because he wants time of 2 years and my parents want me to get engaged. I failed in 3 exams before and my parents think i cannot face such a huge competition and get a job. But this time seriously i want to crack this exam and get job and prove myself. But i feel the same what my parents feel that i am good for nothing. But i dont want this feeling to stop me. I want to crack this exam get a job, give my bf time so that he can also do the same. I want to do but I am unable to do. I know if i will work hard and sincerely i can crack this exam. Competition is huge and i am surrounded with many problems.. I have pressure to prove myself. I have to fight for my identity but why i am not doing that.. I am doubting myself without even studying.. I have time  with me but still i am unable to concentrate on my studies plzz help