Ok here I go sorry if I ramble having a really hard time with this.so I'm married for 7 years been together for 11 we have two lovley kids a 6 year old girl an a 17 month old boy.this also could be posted in the addiction site I suppose. I've been disabled due to back surgery for about 5 years my pain dr jacked me up on a bunch of med.is how this all started long story short I have been in a fog bank an deppresed for a long while kinda pity party .in my fog I lost a lot of thing an let a lot of thing slip by not noticing .my wife started taking pills got addicted for about 2 years she almost overdosed several times before I was able to get her into a rehab. In rehab she meet some guy which I feel like he prayed upon her anyways I didn't handle her being gone for a month so well I was angry fustrated an trying to take care of our kids. Once she came home I was still taking my pain meds an that upset her I put them outside .but I then had a brief moment of clarity that I couldn't expect her to stay clean while I wasn't so I came home one night an flushed all pain med an am now off them they were cause problems with us so I removed the wedge. Now we are both sober an she. Still is working her program but this guy she started liking is going through this program with her an they getting closer an closer. I have found letters about her wanting to be with him an something stating she is in love with two men.an as I said I'm injured an not working which is another issue.I do get money so I'm not like totally suck her dry she pay more towards house n bills but I do give her money towards them to.she is now stating that seeing as we are both clean an trying to work a program it would be best if we seperate an see if we can work this out apart. But I know as soon as I find a job an move out ill be getting served papers she says she is being faithfull but I have caught her in situations that are not this other man has his life kinda together except he is an acoholic that has been in an out of rehab 3 or 4 time an she has taken my youngest son and stay at his house one night an I caught. Her I the lie I don't feel It safe for my kidss .she also tells me she is going to meeting an then her court card is not signed at the meeting an meeting is 11/2 hours an she is gone for 5 . She has been being untruthful to me for awhile. There is a bunch more I could write a novel. So what do I do I don't want to be in a unfaithful realationship but I also can't afford to get my own place. At this point in time.how does it work with divoce can she just force me to leave do I make her file before I move I know this is messed up for a man to be saying this but I haven't work on the books the whole time we have been married I've kinda been mr mom am I entited to alimony? Will me getting a part time job hamper that.also she has been so wrapped up in this program and other guy she is even really around for her kids as I said I've been the mommy an daddy to our kids for over 2 years my son calls me mommy and daddy which is another whole problem spilting up she is taking his care giver of hs whole life away. And she doesn't really know how to take care of him she gets angry he won't eat for her or go to sleep for her I have to do it.She has been pushing for me to rent a room but I'm not willing to do that because I won't be able to have my kids there what do I do I need at least a 1 bd apt really a 2 bd room cuz CA requires girls need there own room. This is such an ugly deal really need some advice thanks also I have a hard time with our kids an I'm in the trenches with them everyday she has been MIA for so long I really don't think she could handle it and work her program and keeP another realationship an work all of it an stay sober which she needs to be I am a broken shell of a man right now. Help please