Please help me with my situation as I am going crazy!
 My bf and I got back together 2 months ago and its been great. I broke up with him because he wasn't giving me his all. He came back and finally told me he loved me and he realized how he was acting was wrong. He told me he is lucky to have me and he needs me. He has also pulled away from me last summer because he said he needed to do that but realized he messed up.
 He has been having major business issues where he could potentially lose 5 years of work that he has put in towards a project. His deals arent going through and he has been very depressed over that. The worse part of it all, his business partner is his own DAD and his dad is the one causing this. That is whyy he is really upset, because it's his own Dad. He cried to me last week BUT this week he changed. He told me on Wednsday night that he wasn't in the mood to talk (bceause during the day a deal that was supposed to go through didn't). I told him he was hurting my feelings by doing that and next day he did not contact me at all! Its not like him. On Friday I texted him and said that I dont know hwta I did to him for him to act this way and that he needs to talk to me because I am trying. He explained that the deal wasn't going through like he thought and it dejected him for a few days. I then said I am trying my best to help you and make you feel good but you made me feel sick to my stomach by not contacting me. I also said that I am here for him always and I loved him. He said I love you too and thats it. On Saturday ( we always get together on the weekend, its been our regular thing) He FINALLY texted me in the evening saying " sorry feel like being alone right now" He was very cold and short and didnt say anything to make me feel like its not me. I texted him today saying " Thinking of you. Missing and love you". He hasnt replied all day. I am going to leave it alone for a few days BUT how long do I wait? I cant wait forever for him to reach out. I respect his decision but he also cant leave me hanging. I feel like he will be breaking up with me or something. I told him i am there and I loved him and I havent bothered him much and will not connect with him again.
 Its hard for me to understand how you can tell someone you love them and call them to vent or cry and then next day BOOM, you dont even have the heart to say " I am sorry I love you please give me some space. All i got was " Sorry I want to be alone"
 I am very sad and cant get my mind off him and scared he will pull away like last year. The only difference this time is he said he loved me and that I am the only thing make shim happy. he also said he feel WAY DIFFERENT for me than last year. So i am hoping this is just a time issue for us...