Hi all,
 Where do I start....
 Well, first things first- to start with a bit of background.  I lost my baby son in November 06 (I was 23 weeks gestation), my na na nov 07 and my mams husband feb 08.  I am terrified of death and I feel this is linked to my problems.  However, my symtoms are relly concerning me like no other.  
 Does anyone relate to this.... 
 I know I am naturally a panicker, but recently I have been getting a pressure like feeling on the right hand side of my head near to where you usually gain a migrane or headache.  I have never suffered headaches before.  I sometimes think it could be because I had an epidural with my second son because I know you can get side effects afterwards (trying to console myself).  But, even taking ibuprofen and the like does not get rid.  I also get twitches on my head, but this is usually near the top at the side.  
 I also have in my right eye (trying to find the words to explain) three small grey balls in my vision, which are of the same size and cause my vision to be blury where they are.  The balls are next to one another and small in comparison, like the size of a small freckle.  I have recently had this checked out and my doctor has refered me to an eye specialist, but I cant wait for it.  She tells me I am probably stressed and have anxiety.  But, it can be hard to believe at times when you have so much going on in your head and I have no faith in docs anymore (since what happend with my son and what you hear on tv and in your own family if you get what you mean). 
  I am also now getting pins and needles in my legs and feet and even my hands and arm but not as much as my legs and feet.  I am also now getting stitches all of the time and sharp quick pains in different places i.e. back of chest, top of arm.  I just hope this is nothing to worry about.  I am going out my mind with worry.  I have a lot on my plate so I am hoping it is stress, as I know stress can have a bad effect on the body in many differnt ways and in various ways for us all.
 I am also concerned for my baby boy as I am scared he will be a victim of cot death (because of what happened in the past I am more receptable to this trully horrific event and I still know there is a slim chance of it happening, but it could just happen to me like when I gave birth at 23 weeks I was one of those statistics).
 I can't think if theres anything else, lol probably another symptom of stress- memory loss/concentration is at a minimum.
 Well, I wonder if anyone can help me......
 Regards Erin