Not really sure where to start...I'm 20 years old, married for almost a year with 2 kids ages 2 and 1. When we first got together I was, obviously, a teenager. He was much older than me. In the beginning we were friends and he seemed like a very nice, sweet, compassionate man. But once we were together as a couple he started showing these possessive, controlling behaviors over the smallest issues. I still lived at home and if I wanted to spend some time with my family instead of him he yelled at me for caring more about them than him. And when I was anywhere other than with him he would call me something like 20 times on my cell phone until I called him back, and then he would let me have it.  I had never had a job and when I finally got one that I loved he called me every day to yell at me for not wanting to quit my job. I could go on and on about the past, but you get the idea.
 We've been together for about 3 years now and he still has major anger issues. We have a mutual male friend, who happens to be a pastor, and every time he calls here, if I answer the phone and talk to him, my husband goes crazy and says that he is trying to cause a rift between us. Things like this are constantly happening. Over the years I've communicated to him that I don't like his treatment of me and he's constantly said he will change but it has never happened. I've sort of gone into protective mode because I feel like if I let myself relax and move on it will just happen again. Right now we are still on the rebound from the last time it happened. 
 I guess the point of my rambling is that I just don't know what I should do. I know I'm not happy and I know I would be happier on my own. I just feel like if I leave it will hurt my kids, not to mention the amount of hurt it will cause him. When I think about being on my own I feel excited because I never had a chance to be on my own, to be independent. But then I think about the effect it will have on my kids and how much it will hurt my husband and it makes me sick to my stomach. Not to mention the disappointment from family and friends. Any advice is appreciated.