My dad was diagnosed with Prostate Cancer in Dec 2010. He had his prostate removed in Feb 2011 and later that year was confirmed Cancer free. He has always suffered with piles and when he started having symptoms related to this he assumed that was what it was. Fast forward to end of Jan 2015, he is was experiencing ALOT of pain to the point where he was unable to sit down comfortably, he was sent for some tests and in Feb 2015 he was told that the Prostate cancer had returned. To alleviate the pain he was offered a colostomy and Hormone Therapy tablets. He opted for a course of Hormone Therapy. As he continued to experience further pain he was admitted to hospital and had some more tests. Now things become blurry from there as in May he found two fistulas on each side of his buttocks, which then started to ooze pus so he was admitted back into hospital due to the extent of the pain these new findings brought about. Whilst in the hospital he was given the results of the previous tests, the doctor said that there appeared to be a mass on the liver and a group of surgeons were now trying to determine whether he had Prostate Bowel or Prostate Rectal Cancer. The doctor then went on to apologise and said that they would now work to make him as comfortable as possible. After this, he went on to have the colostomy at the beginning of June and was discharged two weeks later. He was admitted back into hospital for some tests last week for a CT, MRI and an imaging scan. My younger sister went to visit him and a doctor and nurse ushered her to a room where they were comforting her telling her that my dad has two fistulas which are life limiting and that he will have a course of radiotherapy but he will be made comfortable and have care at home. She was baffled by this as we were not aware that fistulas could kill. Also, the doctor said that they were still unsure whether he had Prostate/Bowel or Prostate/Rectal Cancer. My dad has now had the tests and is still in hospital and is supposedly being released on Tuesday next week. At this point I feel distressed and confused as I just don't know what to believe. Anyone who could give me even the slightest insight into all this will be appreciated. Thank you in advance and please accept my apologies for the lengthy message.