Last year, i met a man (a police officer) through a dating system.  At the time he told me he was seperated and was going for a divorce.--We had an relationship, but there were "issues" from the get go.---Such as he only wanted to meet for our "romps" out of town cuz he told me that with his job, he had to.---The whole time we were together, I was FORBIDDEN to contact him on his days off, on the cell phone. And he would get mad if I did contact him then. (he told me he was "living" with the wife, cuz he could not afford an apt, and all the expenses of his house/kids)---Well after many months together, he announces he's going back to the wife cuz she's expecting another child.---The biggest problem was after telling me that, and even though I felt blindsided, we continued to talk, because we both had strong feelings for each other.--There have been many times i just wanted to walk from it all, and with the amount of anger I felt, I concidered contacting his wife to let her know her husband was with me the whole time she was carrying his child and home taking care of all the other ones. That because of his lies and deceitful ways, she was also living a lie.  And I wanted to do it to get back at him.---The question is--should i let her know?????---The other thing that blows my mind is---recently I was dianosed with cancer and then a heart problem, and through it all, he contacts me very little to see how I;m doing.  He claims he wants to stay friends, but I think he only wants to do that so that I don't contact his wife.  I mean he's with her, but yet still keeps a friendship with me!?  What bothers me, is why would he not contact me more often tosee how I'm doing???  Sometimes, i think I'm an embarrassment to him, cuz I'm sick.  I guess the long of the short is---how do you just trun off your emotions like a light switch after he "went back", do i contact the wife to let her TRULY what went on between us (she knew or was told we were only friends)( I don't beleive she knows that her husband had an affair while she was pregnant), and as I said, i wanted to contact her, but I have to be careful cuz with him being a cop, he could make my life hell.---And why he appears to not care that I'm sick, and not contact me, except every so often.---If you guys out ther could give me some insight as to what I should do that would be awesome.  I NEED IT!!!