My psych said to me " I dont know what your angry at - but you do yourself a disservice - your basically a nice guy yet you dont always come across that way" 
 He's right.He's absolutely right. I been angry a long time. I know what hate is, I know what resentment, anger and revenge is - For as long as I can remember I been angry at something or another. I used dope to help manage my anger & my personality - I became addicted. My anger got worse - I got depressed - finally this year I quit drugs
 As I attempt to deal with the source of my anger - it was when as a child my closest brother was killed in an automobile accident. In those days there was no support - I got no support - I wasnt allowed to attend his funeral - 
All very sad. My mum and dad are dead now too - and I have brothers but really I'm the one that remembers him. I'm his closest living relative. Thats my job isnt it? To remember him?
 I realised recently that my anger and bitterness is my way of remembering and honouring him. How faulty? How silly?
But its all I knew - all I could do. I suppose my behaviour became conditioned. Throughout my life I've overeacted to unfairness, threats and criticiscm and "stuck up for my brother whenever it was needed - yet hes been dead for over 40 years! 
 If only I'd been there at the time maybe I couldve prevented it.....It could have been me that died. Why wasnt it me that was taken? 
 I realise now I wore my brothers trajic death "on my sleeve" and that he wouldnt want that - and I do him and myself a disservice by continuing to use drugs and be angry about his death. I never got over his death. Neither did my mum. 
 I just got to think now of other ways I could remember him - that are positive, like a scholarship or roadside memorial or I dont know. I got to find a way to stop being angry - find the forgiveness in my heart. I cant find it. I know God forgives - but can I? Why cant I forgive?
 Has anyone else been in this predicament and got any advice. Much appreciated.