Hi, I've had severe depression for about 8months now and have been on medication and counselling etc, and i thought things were getting better as i seemed to get these happy episodes, but now theyve become severe episodes where i feel such overwhelming excitment and happiness.... all i want to do is jump up and down and scream and sing and talk to anyone who is there, and if no one is there i will talk to myself.
 I get all these ideas of things i want to do and if someone suggests something to me, it's a brilliant idea no matter what it is! I twitch all over, especially my leg will twitch and my hands will shake badly because i have to move fast i cant be slow i have to keep moving and if someone talks to me and i have to stand still, i get soo irritated and angry! I find myself doing strange things, sometimes dangerous, I.E i thought it would be a brilliant idea to go for a walk in the pitch black dark through these woods with my head phones in and music on fullblast for an hour?! Another time i was at work, i sat on the floor in the middle of the staff room just laughing aloud to myself?! Things like that......
 They vary in how long they will last..... At first when i thought things were getting better i would be happy for days, then all of a sudden i would wake up one morning feeling miserable and so low..... now I've noticed these extreme episodes last about an hour or two and i will get them once or twice a day. In between these episodes i crash and become soo tired and miserable and i don't want to be around anyone (my depression coming back into play again) as this is how i felt before these episodes started happening with my depression.
 I have been to a psychiatrist and they have said i have mixedmood disorder which has stemmed from traumas over the past two years. I am waiting to start my medication (mood stabilzers) not sure which ones yet i have to wait til my GP opens again tomorrow, but they did say if these tablets do not work i will need to be hospitilzed for treatment as they are worried about the high episodes and they need to see it under control by february 1st otherwise they have no choice to hospitilize me.
 Is mixed mood disorder bipolar or is this different? Is there anything i can do to manage this? I am scared and i feel like i have tried everything i can to get out of this depression but it has not progressed to this and i dont know what there is left for me to do. I need some information or advice from someone. 
Thankyou.