I have been diagnosed with borderline personality disorder. I usually have high functioning periods but this last year has been nothing but a roller coaster. I even lost my marriage over it and will probably lose my kids too. A few weeks ago I was sexually assaulted and the first person I could think of calling was my soon to be ex husband. I thought for sure he would judge me for it but instead he supported me. He went to the hospital with me, he went to the police station with me. It was abnormal. He doesn't usually support me in times of crisis. Anyway, I've been spiraling down hill lately and have been suicidal. I finally got up the nerve to attempt a few days ago and woke up in a hospital alone. Now my ex husband hates me and won't talk to me. I have nobody for support and the psychiatrist sent me on my way after 24 hours. I had no purse, no wallet and wasn't even allowed to use the phone in the ward I was on, I had to find one in the waiting room. Since then my moods have been up and down. The fact that my ex husband is completely ignoring me is making me completely insane and I'm having a hard time not calling him or texting him. I know that I am a horrible person for doing what I did but why do I have to be treated like a leper even in the mental health community? It doesn't make me want to live more that's for sure.  I am from Canada and we do have free mental health care but they don't deal with people with sever mental issues like Bi Polar and personality disorders. The psychologists that do are extremely expensive. What is someone like me suppose to do to get help with nobody there to support me? I feel lost and alone. Just today I have went from feeling hopeless and wanting to die, to seeing the light and I don't need anyone I'm going to get better on my own and tomorrow I'm going to the gym! To so angry at my ex for running away from me that I'm going to harass him until he hears me, too feeling like curling up in a fetal position and crying the most painful cry. I go full circle and start all over again. It's exhausting and I am feeling absolutely insane. So again I guess my question is what do I do? I feel like I have no place to turn to. 
 Thanks for listening.