Hi,
Below is my father's CT Upper Abdomen (Contrast) report. please guide us to what exactly does it say. Need Help. Age 55. Smoker but Non Alcoholic.
Thank You
 CECT UPPER ABDOMEN ‎
CECT of the abdomen from domes of diaphragms to the level of pubic symphysis‎ ‎in  portal ‎
venous phase ‎(‎PVP‎) ‎was obtained after oral water and IV non‎-‎ionic contrast administration ‎
using pressure injector‎. ‎Slice thickness of ‎.‎625 ‎mm‎/ ‎5‎mm were obtained on Discovery ‎750 ‎
HD ‎64 ‎row spectral scanner‎.‎ ‎All images are provided on a CD ‎(‎Please carry your CD on the ‎
next visit‎).‎
 The lower end of CBD shows a small well‎-‎defined enhancing rounded intraductal lesion ‎(‎approx ‎
17 ‎x ‎13 ‎mm in size‎) ‎showing persistent enhancement on the delayed phase‎. ‎This lesion is seen ‎
to project into the second part of duodenum‎. ‎However‎, ‎duodenal walls show normal thickness‎. ‎
There is attendant upstream dilatation of the CBD ‎(‎maximum calibre is approx ‎10‎-‎mm‎) ‎and ‎
bilobar IHBR‎. ‎Also note is made of pancreatic divisum‎, ‎with normal calibre of the pancreatic duct‎. ‎
Multiple enhancing rounded subcentimeteric periportal lymph nodes are noted‎. ‎
 Liver measures approx‎. ‎13‎.‎2‎-‎cm in craniocaudal span and shows normal outline and attenuation‎. ‎
No evidence of focal lesion is seen‎. ‎
 Portal vein and hepatic veins and show normal contrast opacification‎.‎
 Gall Bladder is distended and shows normal lumen with edematous wall thickness‎. ‎The GB neck ‎
region and primary confluence region shows subtle circumferential mucosal enhancement‎.‎
 Pancreas has normal outlines and par‎enchymal enhancement‎. ‎Few thin subcentimeteric cortical ‎
cysts seen in bilateral kidneys‎. ‎No‎ definite calcification is seen‎. ‎MPD is not dilated‎.‎
 Spleen is normal in size and enhancement‎. ‎A tiny splenunculus noted at mid pole‎.‎ ‎
 Bilateral kidneys show normal size‎, ‎outline and contrast enhancement‎. ‎Adrenals are normal in ‎
size and shape‎.‎
 No e‎/‎o significant retroperitoneal or mesenteric lymphadenopathy seen‎. ‎
 Abdominal aorta‎, ‎IVC and other major abdominal vessels show normal contrast opacification‎. ‎
 ‎
Stomach‎, ‎visualized small and large bowel loops are unremarkable ‎except lipomatous mural ‎
changes noted in the region of ileo‎-‎cecal value‎.  ‎
 No free fluid is seen in the abdomen‎. ‎