Training four year old daughter to kiss her on HIS lipsiding daughter on her shoulders however grabbing her legs while he drops on down bed tightly holding her legs as he rises to stand back up and comments "does that feel good"
He did this multiple times util I asked him to stop and relayed that may be too much stimulation on her private area.
Accidental revealing of his penis while we were watching a princess movie...one daughter facing TV...he sitting on the couch with four year old in between his arm and tower just slightly in a stand over his head...when i looked over I was mortified to see his penis erect and protruding from his shorts...He swears it was just an accident and Daughter could not see anything...and why did not i come over and cover him up?....This behavior was shocking  and confusing as i had to go to work that day. Crawling into and under daughters covers in her bed at his house..."Just to warm up the bed...note We live in California...How do I get the mediation we need to discuss these issues? He already canceled on by simply faxing a document from one county to the next. His method of control is covert and abusive i feel this is why i left him....The visitations now are everyother weekend He started doing these things while an unkown court document was filed for him to have sole legal and sole physical...for now i have been granted sole custody. I worry about my fears...This mans father was a convicted pedifiler many years ago and my daughters father had to go to many foster homes while growning up...he is 54 and our daughter is four. He always threatens me with civil intimidation and hurt my older daughter that is not his for the short three months i was living with him...i am afraid of this man because everything else about him seems normal. How can i prove boundaries are being crossed in order to alienate mothers affection and take control of this beautiful little smart little girl.  Who has also stated that Dad changes her clothes five maybe six times a day while visiting including her panties and makes her lie down to change her panties....i have asked him not to do this...We have another court date  for the 30th because I requested change of VENUE and set up a mediation appointment which he managed to cancel. The Mediation clinic apologized TOO LATE....Question: Is four and a half too young to ask for a professional to talk to her about these things that i worry about? This is so hard.