I was abused in every way possible by multiple persons at different times in my life. I will start with my father. My parents believe in corporal punishment. If you do anything wrong- you are beaten with a belt or anything else they can find at the moment. My mother even threw stones at me because i refuse to go for strap. I think she was just frustrated with her life and the one he children were living. My father is 15 years older than my mother and he has been with her since she was thirteen years old. He beats her in front of us and sometimes chopped at her with a machete that he had.
To this very day i am afraid of anything with a blade. I can recall one night my mom came home, my father was there when she came. the rain was falling really hard and he insisted that no one should open the door for my mom. I went anyway because i could not stand the thought of her being outside in the rain. He came around and saw me opening the door and punched me in the eyes till it bled.The he proceeded to chop at her with his machete ( he was drunk) My mother grabbed me and we had to run to another friend's house for protection. 
 We hardly went to school also because my mom had to work in the days to put food on our table. He would ensure that he never send us to school and uses whatever money is there to buy his drinks and smoke. In fact he told me that he would spend his money so that i could become better than him. He owns forty acres of land that is fruitful in every sense of the word- i mean anything he plants on that land grows, but he never gave us a dime. he spends on other women and their children. When my mom came home he would beat her up and take her money away. Most nights she had to sleep on the floor even when she was pregnant ( although it was her bed). 
  I used to have nightmares of him killing my mother and then hurting us too. I would wake up in the middle of the night wet in sweat from fear and anxiety. That was when i was about 10 years old. Today i cannot be alone with him in a room because I am truly afraid of him ( I am 24 now). 
 Now whenever somebody gets mad at me i begin to think that they are going to hurt me then i get reallt fearful of them. It is really hard living this way especially since no one arund me seems to understand and thinks i am just being sill, but this fear is very real and i am so tired of being afarid all the time. 
 He has stopped drinking and smoking but is now taking on the habit of gambling. He does not beat my mother anymore and i guess this is due to the fact that she started hitting him back. He is much nicer now and I think it’s because I have not turned out the way he expected so he wants money ( I am a college grad). 
 This is just one part of the story. I just want to get pass this