It may be nothing, I kept putting it off as nothing, but i'm slowly starting to see it has affected my everyday life..
 So.. I'm 18 years old, in college, blah. I'm not sure if this means anything but i'll just throw it in there.
 About a year ago, while i was still in highschool, I met a guy, and i thought he was the most perfect guy i've ever met. He showed me to new things, he made my life exciting..he even took my virginity..Prior to this i was a devoted christian and didn't believe in premarital sex..But I changed all around for him, and everyone saw it. I started to get into bad habits, I started to lose my friends, And the people who stayed in my life constantly criticized me. I barely worked, and school became less and less of a priority to me, but I was so 'in love"
and this is where it started
 At first, he was mr. Perfect, amazing looking, so nice..and then he just started to get ...mean.. He'd start playing mind games with me..he'd start breaking up with me and changing his mind 5 minutes later. He'd make plans with me and cancel..he'd criticize me, he'd make fun of me. he'd laugh at me.. He was just an all around *** hole..And i just held on, for those moments he'd tell me he loved me, the moments he showed he cared, i'd forget about the 75% of the messed up things he'd do and just held on by that thred. I was naive, I was stupid, but i was infact in love, no matter how much he did....We started to fight alot.
At first the fights were little arguments, then they turned into screaming, then he got physical
 At first he would grab me, just grab so i couldnt go away, he left multiple bruises on my arms from this..then he hit me, and then he would choke me..but..i still held on..i still loved..i couldn't let go.
 Towards the end things were getting really rocky, and i found out that he was seeing another girl the entire last month, the last time i saw him, (i wont go into too much detail) but he pretty much hit me so hard i fell on the floor, dragged me acrossed the room, and nearly strangled me to death...
  I never thought of it as a big deal, of course i blamed myself and was so mad i didn't get out sooner.. But now i'm just..cold..I go to class, i go to work, sometimes i see my friends and then do homework.. I can't let myself get close to anyone, and i've pretty much turned into your basic cold hearted *****...two months later, i still hate him..I still can't forget..I get flash backs of it sometimes and it kills me...I don't even see myself getting into another relationship..I don't think i can..
  How do you get over this..