I've spent my life suffering from major depression on and off... I always seemed to bounce back until this past year and half were utter, mind-losing, gut wrenching hell. I was so depressed all I could think about was dying .. but yet things in my life weren't THAT bad. It made no sense. I was convinced and told by doctors that I had clinical depression and it was a chemical imbalance and I needed medication.
 I took the drugs. They helped a bit. But now looking back I could see that they were masking my feelings and i was not myself. I could not go off the drugs because I would be so much worse but on them I had side effects no matter what I tried .. Dizziness, fatigue, slow-reaction time, blurry vision. I felt like I was slowly losing my mind.
 I would take supplements (even Vitamin B12 orally - which must have done nothing), I'd work out, do yoga .. every day .. and still I felt I was losing my battle with depression. I just wanted to die. I saw a life ahead of me on medication and forever altering who I am and how I feel and what I am able to do...
 Until...
After two years of reading countless articales, books and people's experiences with depression and medication .. I decided to try injecting myself with Vitamin B12 with a syringe. I literally, instantly started to feel better ...
I stopped taking my medication after tapering off within two weeks. And I kept shooting the b12 every few days in my butt. 
 A few weeks on .. I have more energy, more strength, more motivation and am happier and clearer than I have ever been in my life. It amazes me that all these doctors could not have told to try this? They just wanted to give me more drugs .. It makes me sick to think that I put so much trust and faith in these idiots and let them convince me that I needed them. It's no coincidence that most psychiatrists are not spiritual at all either. I hated the antidepressants. But I took them.
 I don't anymore.
I am not saying that this is right for everyone. Though, I did have pretty severe depression and don't have it anymore. My work outs are much more intense and I just feel strong like I am not so worried about how I might feel in the future or what I could endure. I feel strong.
 I hope that more people will try taking these injections and educating themselves about depression.
Maybe some people like those drugs.. I hated them.
 Another fact, I have been a vegetarian and almost vegan most of my life... this could have something to do with the fact that I probably needed the b12, but countless doctors.. hospitals ... blood work .. nobody found that out?
 I'm just saying ...
Anybody else had experiences?