Hi I am Zenji. I am 21 years old and was diagnosed with Boderline Personality Disorder as an 18th birthday present. The conversation went exactly like this
Doctor: Happy Birthday
Me: Thanks
Doctor: Here is your present *hands me a pen* (the pen was the actual present...I think)
Me: Cool thanks
Doctor: Oh and here sign this
Me: What is this?
Doctor: I am diagnosing you with Borderline Personality Disorder
Me: Oh wow what a great present!
 I have know this doctor most of my life and I already knew with this diagnose was and that I would be "given" it when I was legally old enough.
 One thing that my doctor and therapist helped me with is something that I think will help alot of people. They helped me understand every aspect of this diagnoses and encourage me to do my own research on it as well. Knowing that the way I feel sometimes and the urges I have are from this disorder better helped me control how much it effected my day to day life. For example when my therapist cancels an appointment I feel hurt and mad. I feel like I have done something wrong and that he doesn't like me anymore. I know that as a part of this disorder "I will do anything to avoid real or imagined abandonment" - DSM IV. So when my therapist does cancel our appointment and I start feeling all those feelings I remember that what I am feeling is just apart of the disorder. Honestly it helps alot. I noticed a huge difference in my life once I knew what was going on in my head and why and because I was able to figure out the difference between what was real and what my brain thought was real I have been more able to control those feelings. When someone cancels appointment with me I know they are not abandoning me even though my brain thinks that they are.
 That is just one example. I encourage all of you to do your own research and to talk to your therapist and doctors about your disorder. I am 80% it will help even if it is just a little bit.
 Also I realized that not everything about this disorder is completely negative. In DBT (Dialectal Behavior Therapy) There is and exercise called DEAR MAN. This section is how to positively get what you want. This section of DBT focuses on the manipulation part of the disorder.   I have noticed that even though I don't always use the DEAR MAN I am very good and convince people to give me what I want. I used this alot when I was younger in a bad way but I have found now it is equally productive to use this same method to get the get the things I need if done right. i.e scholarships for school.
 Well I am going to end it there but I this is something that really helped me and I thought I would pass it on. Just try it. If it doesn't help much than you still don't lose you have gained knowledge. 
 Also I check my mail several times a day so if anybody has any questions on other things that helped me feel free to send me a message. I normally respond in less than 24hrs.
 Thanks,
Zenji