hi i am 40yrs married to widower having 3 children from past 13 yrs i was 26 when i married him and children where 7yr ols son 14yr old daughter and 16yr old son. I dint opt for a child since we had already 3 and always given my best to be their true mother. i always been good friend to them and always thought for their good and safe future now my daughter is mba working for american express and married to a software engg. and my elder son is also MBa and he is getting married. Initially  when i came as mother to them the older 2 children  took time to accept me as a mother but later i hope they accepted me 90%. but the younger son has accepted me completely and no issues at all with him till date. But the elder children special my elder son always used to feel that i am an pain in his life and a mistake of his father to get married to me. this was an arranged marriage and not an love marriage. My husband always supports his children and he never blames his children no matter what they have done. I can understand his situation so generally we fight and finally get along  accepting the truth that we have to live together. Actually i always want my children to be do well in their studies have a good future so i used to make them concentrate on their studies and since i am an  educated  software engg. colud easily find out their crams and  mischief. And for their good future i used to scream at them and if i can not handle i used to explain the same thing to my husband which i feel that that my elder son always took it the other way. He always fees annoyed if i scold his sister or brother and sometimes he gives back badly with bad words. Now he is getting married. He told us to choose a girl whom we like so that the family should go on smoothly and the girl should adjust with me properly. i really appreciated the way he told me and i was in clouds that i have earned a son . But after the engagement a month was great but he daughter-in-law parent are playing games with us. recently we had visited ***station to meet my daughter-in-law i was shocked to handle the way she behaves and the way she treated me like a ****. I came back home and tried to explain him the situation and even he could sense that the problem was there and the behavior was totally wrong of his would be wife. But to my surprise when we came back home he was shouting at me and my husband that we have purposely pushed him to a hell by telling him to get married and specially he screamed at me saying that i can never get adjusted with any female since i dont get along with his grandmother and his father sisters. But to explain his grand mother i.e my mother-in-law wanted a house wife for his grand son and not an educated lady since my husband had a joint bussiness with his younger brother and my mother-in-law was with them. they dint wanted an help in bussiness so they used to trouble me by tounting me and  me and my husband have fought like a dogs because of the misunderstanding they created intitally.
the whole summary is after hearing that statement from my son that i am an irritating character and can never get along with anybody and so he wants to divide from our house and even the bussiness since he works with us in our bussniess. i am dipressed and even my husband although he supported that if you want the saperate u can always i cants leavie my wife at this stage. But i am unable to handle this situation and getting depressed and feeling like ending my life since because of these children i dint had one and because of that my parents separated me from them and treated me like a hellllll..... they compain that u trusted a outsider and never shared that u wont opt for a child and i got operated not to have a child.
Please help and suggest how to deal sicne my hsuband want to be with his children he is feeling that because of me he has to get separated with his son and he wants things to be cooled out . i have tried my best to keep my temper cool and not to react . But now he says to make things smoother as it was before but my heart is not accepting this since i always be target in my house for wrong things and at that moment the ways i have been treated is like an animal