Hello..
 IAm male 23, 
 I am posting because I have exhausted every possible option I have and I can't seem to figure out what is wrong with me and neither can the doctors. Basically let me start off with some back story. I began smoking marajuana about a year ago (Early 2007) and sometimes when I smoked I would get these exstreamly scary panic attacks. My heart would beat very fast and very hard and I could only seem to take shallow breaths. It felt like I was going to die and everything felt dreamy. It would get so bad that I would have to go to the hospital and they then give me  an injection of some kind of nerve calming medication. This happened a total number of about 7 times but didn't happen everytime I smoked witch didn't make since because It was the same weed and wasnt laced with anything (FYI - I wasn't smoking everyday just about 1 time every two weeks with sometimes 2 day bindges). Then I begin taking and injecting steroids that I got from a trainer that worked at Bally's Total Fitness ( Testosterone, Diabol pill form, Masternol) .. I only injected the steroids for about three weeks a total number of three times and stopped abrubtly after. Now everything was fine Until about 3 month after quitting the steroids I decieded to smoke while I actually was  sick with a cold. My sinuses where completely blocked and my head was hurting terribly. I then fell asleep. Now Ive always had problems with my sinuses (Diveated Septum and major blockage no Infection just post nasal drip and accastional sinus head ache , pressure, but I've been living with this for atleast 5 years. 
  After that I have not smokin marajuana since. My sinuses on the other hand have never been the same. I constantly feel pressure, the back of my neck feels stiff all the time like it needs to be cracked, my head feels heavy and frequently get head aches, feels liked something needs to be drained out the middle top of my skull. On top of all that it has caused me a great deal of axiety and also been feeling sad alot wanting to cry at random time and I can't figure out if im slipping into a depressive state.(Very Important)I also feel like I'm in a dream like state and find it very difficult to focus or to concentrate. My vision feels like the brightness has been turned up. imagine a tv or a computer and u turn up the brightness. My eyes also have alot of glare and thats where the dreamy like sensation is coming from. almost like theres  film of light between my visual field and the object making it more difficult to see. 
 I went to all the different doctors and this is what was found.
 Sinus
The doctor said I have chronic Sinusitis and would need to have surgery to open up my passage ways so the mucus can draine affectivly and the pressure can be eliviated.
 eyes
1.A slight stigmatism
2.Presbyopia
 I also had brain scan and blood work and everything was fine. Now my question is am I having all of these syptoms(Fatigue , loss of concentration and focus, vision brightness and glare, floaters, preassure over top of eyes,  dream like state,ect.)  becuase of my sinuses and why is it that my sinuses cause my vision to feel like this. 
 Please respond.