I was dx'd bpd/rts/ptsd in 2004- following a week long psychotic breakdown after the end of a very long- very odd relationship- after that week was over, and I was allowed to go back home (72 hr psych eval hold) It was as if nothing had happened. Everything was back to how it was before- save the ex...he was gone- and I was in therapy. But the problems I want to talk about today- have existed as long as I can remember, and to this day. The first thing is super embarrassing- I almost don't want to admit it- I find myself not only writing stories, but I'll act them out when I'm alone- especially when I can't sleep (it takes me anywhere from 5 to 45 hours to fall asleep sometimes) I mean I become a literal one man show in my room, i'll act out all of the character parts- and they are by no means fantasy lives- they're almost always seriously dramatic/traumatic almost soap opera stories... which is funny because my real life has always been too messed up to be a soap opera.  Also, for these same 24 years (my mom can back this up) I have never kept anything clean...my room, my locker, my desk, my cars, my apartments, etc. You name it, it's never stayed clean more than a few weeks at a time if that- even four months (medical discharge) in the military was difficult to manage because my locker was a mess. (ironically I am OCD clean at every job I've had AND clean at my boyfriend's home) Not only that, but I can never finish anything I start, nor do I seem to care much - about doing anything about it. I lay around all day almost every day, mulling over in my head all of the things that are messed up in my life, and how i can possibly fix them. All while stuffing my face and watching TV/surfing the web. I do not want to be in a messy home, I do not want to be unemployed, yet i do- (i really hate having to go to work anymore) I hate being in school for the umpteenth time (different program every time) I HATE that I had to be given an ultimatum that will basically determine my marital status. I am up to my eyeballs in debt, I have no complete formal education, i have medical records half a foot thick (physical illness and injury not mental), my family has been hanging  by a thread when it comes to me- for as long as i can remember. (One of my sisters says that having RTS/PTSD/BPD is no excuse, and was no excuse for being a "rotten child".) Not only am I the black sheep of the family- I can't even motivate myself to accomplish what I need so I can finally get the one thing i want in life- to have forever with the true love of my life.  I make lists, I tell everyone of my battle plans, sometimes I even start something- but nothing lasts- nothings finished- and nothing is better. The only thing I have managed is to quit drinking- save MAYBE five drinks a year.  I had to move back home when I lost my job last year- and it's as if I'm 15 again..... My parents and siblings even treat me like a child.  Have I given up on myself -achievement wise- because my whole family has? I have started a new vocational program- and I am SOOOO close to finishing it- I almost panic when I start myself not wanting to do my schoolwork because I want to change sooooo much...I want my life to stop being exactly as it was when I was 20 (Not 15, because I still had my military scholarship and dreams then)  I WANT to be able to move in with my BF, get engaged and married like we're planning- but he won't if I can't basically grow up- he won't assume my debt/poor credit score/unemployment and we both agree that I need to be in a situation where I would be able to support myself without him before we reconsider marriage. I just don't know what to do anymore. I ask for help from family and they give me some eye roll worthy responses. Just do it- or act your age is easier said than done.....
 Please Help