As many as you know my name is Leah and i am 16 years old, I was brought up by drug addcited parents......... I was adopted at age 3, My biological father was drunk on day and came home; i was home with my biological mother 
( i was 15 months at the time ) she left me homw with him, and i guess he wasnt aloud to drink and do drug in the appartment so he when on top of the building all drunk he was standing on the edge and he bent over and he droped me; the building was 20ft in the air!!!He than drove away and the police found me lying on the sidewalk and he brought me to the hopital...... i had bruised and cuts, so than after a while went by i went into foster care with the parents i have now!!!!!!! They had to go into court to say they would take care of me, this was when i was 1 years old or almost a year old............. Than i guess my biological father kidnaped me and he would pull me by my hair, kick me, slap me!!!!! I do realize that was 16 years ago but, it's sooooooo hard knowing that my REAL parents would do something like that; i am TARRIFIED my males!!!! i just cannot, just not think about it!!!!! When i was in my mother stomach she did drugs and whatnot, i was born 2 months early only weighing 2 pounds, i was diognoised with Aspergers Syndrom, Learning Disabilites, Speech Problem, Anerger mangament, OCD, Stress Disoder............ I was digonised woth all of those when i moved and started seeing my mental doctor he is AMAING i've been seeing him for 9 years, i got digonised with the Stress disoder last year 2008!!!! It hurts me A LOT and i try sooooo hard not to think about as much as i do, i just wish that i could tell my parents that but they say that i ***** off alot which i do i will addmit that!!! I just dont want to hurt them because i am living the life i want to live, but i get soooooo stressed out, and sometime depressed when i think about my childhood, Well i see my mental doctor April 25th and i will try ti tell him!!!! 
 How can i help my Emional health with this???
 Thanks Leah =)