I've been with this man for 3 years we have been though heck and back. When we first met every thing was great! After 3 months I got preg. As planned. Right away things went bad. The day we found out he didnt come home till 4am. He was drinking all the time and heavy. We still stayed togther and got a joint home big for our family. Thing got really bad. I never seenhim till 2am drunk an yelling at me. First time he didnt come home I went to the bar and he wouldnt leave. So I grab his phone and keys a walked out. He came after me and to make a long storie short he slammed my head into the car lots of times then grabbed his stuff and went into the bar. I moved out but shortly came back. Then at 6 month preg. We went to party and there he and this girl were hanging all over each other. ( he was cheating on me with her) so I went home crying when he came home he told me they have been messing around for a while and I slapped him. He then grabbed me up and tossed me on my back. I was in the hospital for 2day. I left him for good I thought. I gave birth to our son and we got back together. He still was out a lot but I wouldnt let him come to my place if he was drinking. Then the drinking stopped when our son was about 6 month. one month later he went to the bar. A fight broke out of me yelling at him telling him all the nasty thing he did when drinking and I didnt want it. I grabbed my son and went to leave. He took our  son out of my arms and grabbed me by my neck and slammed my head into a wall while holding our son. I was knocked out. I left him again. Didnt go back till our son was 1 and a half. He cryied every day to me how he loved me. So we got back togther. He has not hit me since. our son is now over 2 years old. I'm still scared. I love him but........... The past was soooo bad. Cheating abuse and fear...... I cant seem to move on. But now we have bought a house live togther again. We argue some times. I get scared. I just dont know. I really do love him but what if he does it again.