I am a 22-year-old woman who just graduated from college. Amongst my friends there I was known, jokingly, as the *********, because I have amassed a large amount of lolicon and shotacon (cartoon depictions of children in sexual situations). This in itself is not uncommon, as several of my close friends also look at this type of material. However, I am also a victim of sexual abuse. I was abused once around the age of 2 by a babysitter, although luckily as soon as my Mom found out she took me away from that situation. I was also emotionally and physically abused by my Father throughout my early years (roughly 6 to 10), and for two years after my parent's divorce he would often touch me inappropriately, laying on top of me or putting his tongue in my mouth.
 I find it impossible to blame him for this behaviour, as he had been diagnosed with Bipolar disorder just after my Mother made him leave the house (when I was 10), had a mental breakdown shortly thereafter and was on a slew of differing medications for a long time afterwards, but at the same time I can't help being angry at him.
 I hit puberty around the age of 12, and began masturbating a few months prior to that. My sexual fantasies quickly became violent, and a decade later have progressed to the point where I feel shocked even while thinking of them. Although my fantasies have mostly featured women, over the years the age of these women has grown increasingly younger even as the situations have grown more extreme. My sexual fantasies involving young boys are, in contrast, completely loving - PG, if you will. I also have a lot of little strange behaviours, like constantly picking at and eating scabs and other materials from my face, skin, nose, etc, which I have read can be a symptom of OCD or depression.
 I have never had a girlfriend and I have never confided these things to anyone I know, nor have I ever been to a therapist. I now have a 3-year-old brother and a 1 1/2 year old niece who both live in the same house as me, and I babysit both of them often. Although you couldn't find a more vocal opponent of child molestation than me and I love to be around children, every time I'm around the two of them I can't help but think about the fantasies I've had and wonder if I'm somehow putting them in danger. I have no driver's license, so going to a therapist on my own is impossible, but there is no way I would ever tell my Mother about these things. What should I do? Should I do anything, or am I making a big deal about nothing?