Researchers have discovered that exercise allows your body to eliminate kynurenine, a harmful protein associated with depression. The link between inflammation and depression, your body metabolizes kynurenine in the first place by a process that is activated by stress and inflammatory factors. Include in your diet a high quality animal-based omega-3 fat, like krill oil. This may be the single most important nutrient for optimal brain function, thereby easing symptoms of depression. Vitamin B12 deficiency can also contribute to depression, and affects one in four people. 
Make sure you get enough sleep. The link between depression and lack of sleep is well is well known.
It now seems that insomnia may precede depression in some cases.
Research found that sleep therapy resulted in improvements in depressed patients.
Medical journalist and Pulitzer Prize nominee Robert Whitaker has detailed the drawbacks and benefits of different  treatments in two books: Mad in America, and Anatomy of an Epidemic: Magic Bullets, Psychiatric Drugs, and the Astonishing Rise of Mental Illness in America, noting that physical exercise actually comes out on top in most studies even when compared against antidepressant drugs. 
  A 2006 study, seniors with vitamin D levels below 20 ng/ml were found to be 11 times more prone to be depressed than those with higher levels. The mean vitamin D level was just under 19 ng/ml, which is a severe deficiency state. In fact, 58 percent of the participants had levels below 20 ng/ml. A 2007 study suggested that vitamin D deficiency is responsible for symptoms of depression and anxiety in patients with fibromyalgia. Vitamin D deficiency is also a well recognized cause in Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD). A double-blind randomized trial published in 2008 also concluded that:
“It appears to be a relation between serum levels of 25(OH)D and symptoms of depression. Supplementation with high doses of vitamin D seems to ameliorate these symptoms indicating a possible causal relationship.” 
 Researchers found that seniors with depression had vitamin D levels that were 14 percent lower than those who were not depressed. Those with vitamin D levels below 20 ng/ml had an 85 percent increased risk of depression, compared to those with levels above 30 ng/ml. Another paper published in 2011 stated 
  “Effective detection and treatment of inadequate vitamin D levels in persons with depression and other mental disorders may be an easy and cost-effective therapy which could improve patients’ long-term health outcomes as well as their quality of life.”
If you are going to use a vitamin D supplement, you also need to take vitamin K2 and magnesium, as these nutrients work together. I would have my levels checked.