What, pray tell, is so wrong with perimenopause? 
 My hair is falling out, so I don't have to dish out money for hair care products anymore. Don't need mascara either as the eyelashes are falling out too.
Hopefully soon, I will no longer have to shave my legs or armpits either.
I now use one pad a month...so that saves a few dollars.
I don't have to turn up the heat because of hot flashes...but then again, I do have to turn up the heat once they end because I start to freeze to death.
 On the down side... Hubby and I no longer sleep together because:
A) I won't let him touch me...( to me, that's a good thing!)
B) because he hates waking up in a swimming pool
and 
C) because he's jealous that I have more hair on my chest than he ever will!
 I have to wash sheets every morning. Unless of course it's one of those sleepless nights. You know, the ones where you either just can't get to sleep, or because you have to get up to pee more times than a pregnant woman.
 The heart palpitations keep me on my toes...hand always near the phone in case it's a heart attack.
Keeping up with the wash is impossible. I sweat so bad that I change shirts at least 5 times a day...anyone know how to get rid of the yellow underarm stains?
 On the bright side...I'm saving tons of money because I can't remember for the life of me where I put the car keys.
However, once I do find them, I spend too much...because I have once again forgotten to write a list or bring it with me...so I buy everything I see...or nothing at all, because I can't remember why I'm there...so you stand in the aisle looking like a *bleep*, while men stare at you, kids point and laugh at you, younger women shake their heads, and older women look at you with sympathy and understanding. God bless the older women!
 I have friends? What in the world are their names? Where do they live? 
Did my kids really have a dog when they were little, or are they just pulling my leg?
What's my name? 
We're going out for dinner...again...right after I call the fire department and tell them that I burned the potatoes again and that they can ignore that alarm.
 Gotta feel bad for the kids and hubby. I think I lose it at least once a day now. Hubby gets a slap for saying the wrong thing, and the kids run when they see me coming.
Am I really that bad? Do I really yell as much as they say I do?
Why do my neighbors give me funny looks when I go out to check the mail?
 And let's not even talk about getting help. You know how doctors are...always saying you're too young to be going through this ( even if you are 46 or more. Seems you have to be at least 55 before they listen to you.) or that if you aren't bleeding to death, there is nothing they can do...except give you tons of antidepressants, anti anxiety pills, or sleeping pills. Right after they tell you to just buy depends for that leaking bladder you now have. Of course things could be worse...right?
I somehow don't think ( at this moment anyway ) that anything could be worse than forgetting what you were going to do next, and freezing and sweating at the same time.
Anyone know how to keep the rivers from flowing out of your armpits?
Doctor gave me some miracle stuff once, but told me to only use it once in a blue moon. It's been snowing so much, and the sky is constantly overcast,so that I can't tell if the moon is blue or pink.
Any help here would be appreciated. Maybe I should buy a Farmer's Almanac...it'll tell me what color the moon is...right? Or not. Guess I'll just let the rivers flow. Buy some wood and make little dams under my armpits?
 My feet are cold, my head hurts, my back hurts, my armpits are never going to stop running ( worse than my 4 year old's nose) my hands are cold, I'm itchy...you know...just another day in paradise.
 What day is it?  When is my period due? Am I pregnant? No...haven't done that in awhile...okay,it's all good she says ( as she puts the pregnancy test back under the sink ). Oh wait...I don't have the worst headache in the universe...I know when it's due because I'll get THAT headache several hours to one day before the fateful event.
Gotta love those built in clocks!
 Okay, enough of the fun and giggles. Just trying to make those of us that suffer from this most terrible affliction feel better about it all.
Perhaps some day there will be a cure for this. Perhaps a pill or natural substance that can truly help with these symptoms without destroying our livers, kidneys, etc.
Of course, that day is long off...but I'm sure they'll come up with something to help our great great granddaughters...surmising our own children survive what we are putting them through, in order to grow up and have kids of their own. lol
 So...anyone have any tips, tricks, proven methods that help them with any and all symptoms?
Those of us that have doctors that keep telling us that we are too young or simply give us antidepressants/anxiety pills are begging to know what REALLY works or helps you to cope.
My neighbor isn't of much help. She's over 50 and has non stop periods...so HER doctor is actually helping her!
She's going in for surgery soon. She's been going to the hospital for iron treatments, and is on a handful of pills a day to help her. Wish mine were like that...then they would listen to me...*sniff*.
Just kidding...I think that would cause even more distress and anxiety than what I'm going through now. Except the bald spots on my head...those suck.
 Thanks for your time.