I am a 54 year old female, 5'3", 142 lbs. great health but could exercise more regularly. I had a partial hysterectomy (ovaries/ tubes still in tact) at 48. I am experiencing mild/moderate menopause symptoms without any life style interruptions...until yesterday. Earlier in the day I completely lost my train of thought (unusual for me) teaching a well known Bible story to a small group of children at Vacation Bible School and was not able to get it back on track without assistance. I also experienced a rush of a jumbled bunch of uncontrolled thoughts (not at all unpleasant) that left me feeling fuzzy in the head. During dinner my husband (relationship great) and 22 year old daughter (relationship currently edgy as we wait for her to 'find her legs' and get out on her own) noticed that I was continually repeating events of the day at VBS. Apparently I inadvertently left the 'fuzzy thinking' issue out of the conversation. As the meal continued I began to feel anxious. While I did not have rapid heart beat or shortness of breath, I did end up leaving the table to go outdoors walking around the yard crying my head off, certain someone I love was dead while my husband and daughter called all our closest family members to make sure everyone was okay. I was aware of what was happening but even so, as my husband and daughter did some quick research online, crying off and on, I continually repeated the same questions and offered the same suggestions ie. panic attack and mild stroke about what they/we were looking for. Eventually we opted for a trip to the ER. By the time we got there (we live an hour away) and I was seen by a physician the symptoms seemed to have worn off and I was feeling more self assured and back to normal. In all, the episode lasted about 6 hours, the last three being the most disconcerting. From the way the exam went and the questions that were asked I'm assuming the physician checked for a mild stroke and other neurological conditions. Although it was discussed no blood was drawn, no scans were taken. I checked out fine. There is no family history of this kind of thing that I know of. This morning I feel fine albeit a bit edgy wondering if this is likely to happen again (when and where?) or more likely to never repeat itself. All in all I'm feeling the whole thing can be chalked up to menopause...but then again, here I am posting my concern.     Thank you for your time. May God bless you and your work.