I am new to this site and hoping someone has some experience or insight on my problem.  When I met my H he drank socially and always said he would never drink in front of our kids should we have any, etc.  Having never been around that much alcohol (my father would have a few beers on weekends and my mother might have a glass of wine at a family gathering), I guess I was really naive as to what an "alcohol problem" or an alcoholic" looked like.  So now we have a small child and since he has been born, my husband has turned into a raging alcoholic.  He does not drink hard liquor, but consumes many beers every evening and wine if we have it (so I stopped buying it if we were having company).  In addition, right after the birth of our son, he became verbally abusive, making threats that he would leave me if I confronted him about the way he treated me and that he would get custody of our son...I know these are malicious threats and that he couldn't get FULL custody, but once that idea gets put in your head, you are hesitant to even try to leave.  He frequently snaps at me now, nothing I do is the right way, I am blamed for all of his problems, and I walk on eggshells worrying about what tiny thing will set him off when he gets home.  In the past few weeks, he has admitted that he needs to "cut down" on his drinking and that he knows it upsets me.  But now he is just hiding it  in places in and around the house that he thinks I don't go and blatantly lying to me about not drinking.  I really want to leave him.  The only reason I have stayed is because of his custody threats because honestly, the first time he threatened to take my baby away from me and called me a bad mother just because he was drunk, I lost all respect for him and really never trusted him again.  Our relationship was irreparable at that point.  I fear this not only because he has a horrible temper that I don't want my son around, but also because I don't want my son to be partially raised by someone who thinks it's normal to drink 12-18 beers in a five hour period.  At least if I am there 100% of the time, I can show my child how a functioning person lives and behaves (even though I can't call myself fully functioning because I am nervous being around my husband when I know he's about to blow).  I have driven us around everywhere for the past year or so because my husband doesn't want to get a DUI, so instead of taking responsibility and stopping the drinking, he just uses me as his chauffeur and gets upset with me and tells me to act like an adult if I don't want to drive (ie: I really hate driving at night or in the city).  So I have no proof of my husband's drinking and fear for my child's safety and upbringing if he were to have partial custody.  Anyone have any experience with this?  He refuses AA or any kind of medical intervention because it's everyone else's fault and not his.