I've been doing psychology on myself, and i realize why i am so crazy.  My sister has had a terrible life for the past maybe 18 years.  And the past 10 years have been my craziest.  I never thought her pain would ever affect me, but it does, because she hurts my parents and i can see it.  And i love my parents more than anything and them being affected and even her son, affects me a great deal.  Shes in an abusive relationship, and Im hopin and prayin that she moves to Oregon.  I heard she might, and if she does, it would take a big load off my parents and her son.  Then i would feel better about that.  
Also, I used to do a lot of drugs and alcohol in the past.  That kinda messed me up.  Then I walked into a relationship with a girl and we got married, and 9 years later we are still going.  We've been married for bout 3 years.  But through the whole time we've been together its been a struggle.  I never thought when i was younger that a relationship would be just a struggle.  But I think because of the pain my family goes through because of my sister, it affected me and my relationship with my wife.  I mean, this just blows my mind, because I had a wonderful wonderful childhood up to 20, 21.  
In 2002 i was in a psych ward in the hospital twice, and in 2003 i fell 7 stories and lived.  I was in a band in Arizona after that, and we could have been big.  But my girlfriend who is now my wife, pulled me back here and I have resentment over it.  Over maybe her.  I dont know.  She just pulled me away from my friends and back to the dysfunctionalness of family.  I have anger, for her some times, for my friends, i even hate people sometimes.  And sometimes the only thing that gives me pleasure is either drinking or masterbating.  Its like the Elvis song, Im caught in a trap.  I fell in love, and i feel it took my dream away from my band and brought me back to crap.  I dont know, i miss my friends, but my wife doesnt want to move back to Arizona.  I cant get her to do anything, and i like follow everything she does.  Im like a dog and im clueless.  Sometimes im very thankful.  Thankful for all I was given, and just to still be here, but when i think the of the present, i have some resentment.  I just did so many drugs and just spun and spun and spun and spun, and now this where i feel like i am at.  Its just so hard because i dont know where to go from here.  Its the total opposite of when i was child, my glory days.