Hi!
 I'm a recent college graduate who has just moved back into my parents place to accept a job in a city near my parents. It wasn't exactly my choice to move back in with my parents. I couldn't find a job close to my university so I had to move back to my parents' house because the lease was up at my old place. My dad is a retired Army veteran and strict doesn't even define how he runs the household. 
 Before you continue reading please note that I'm a woman. He used to beat me as a child with a belt and with his hand usually on the butt but sometimes he would hit so violently he would miss and hurt my back and legs. I've even been smacked in the face so hard I fell over. I have younger brothers that he has surprisingly never put his hands on. I'm not sure if he had a change of heart or just hates me. I've developed a terrible anger problem that has led me to resolve things violently and loudly rather than reasonably and calmly. I have never hurt anyone seriously but I have pushed a lot of people away. I've ruined majority of my friendships and most people view me as an angry person which makes me even more angry. I don't want to be this angry person anymore. If you're wondering why I mentioned my father it's because I had control over my anger for a long time and as soon as I moved back into my parents, I can't control my anger as well as I used to.
 My mother is the sweetest woman alive and it hurts her to see how I've turned into a monster. She tells me I'm like my father which I don't appreciate but she's right; We are the same. We are both stubborn as an ox which is why we bumps heads all the time. His arrogance makes me sick sometimes and he blatant disrespect for me and my opinions makes me want to explode. Things could get ugly soon if I can't find a way to make him listen to me so he can learn to respect me and not tear me down. I can't live with him, it will drive me insane and make my anxiety worsen. He interrupts me when I try to give my opinion or defend myself and I assure you I'm not causing problems at home. I keep to myself all day and try to stay out of his way. He doesn't think I'll succeed and has never supported me with anything besides sports. He needs to realize this isn't the military and he can't just tell me to shut my mouth or tell me I can't sleep past a certain or how to spend my free time. I know what is expected of me while I'm living under his roof and I will continue to respect him and his house for as long as I'm here but it's getting to the point where my anger gets so bad I could shatter everything around me. He brings out the ugliest side of me.
 I've tried talking to him about it but he talked over me saying "I don't want to hear this bull**** stop talking!" and anytime I tried to continue he would say "what did I say?! stop talking to me." He says these things often not just that one time. 
 How can I control my anger around him? How will I ever be able to get along with him?