Hello everyone. I have posted a few times in reply to others' posts but this is my first new question I am posting to the depression community. So, I am 19 years old and a college sophomore and have been dealing with what started as severe anxiety at first to now a constant feeling of depersonalization and derealization and has caused me to suffer from depression. Some backstory, like I said it started as severe anxiety, obsessing over my health and having symptoms of a hypochondriac, which led to obsessive thoughts about creation, the universe, my existence which all began to scare me. I believe this was all triggered by my constant use of marijuana although I know it was not the cause, for I have always been a deep and curious thinker, but I have never been afraid of my thoughts in this way before. Anyway all of that led to a severe panic attack and then about two weeks worth of me being in a very dark place where I could not convince myself I was "real" and I was overwhelmed by the very thought of my existence or being inside of my head, convinced the idea of solipsism was true and I was indeed the only person who was conscious. I was getting a lot of help from family and friends and was able to bring myself out of that dark spot a bit, things started to get better I am now taking an ssri, lexapro and it seems to be helping a little bit. I am also doing everything I should be, not drinking or smoking, no caffeine, regular exercise, breathing techniques and visualization. But, I still cannot sleep because that is when everything hits and I am left on my own inside my head and I can't talk it out or distract myself anymore, recently I have been dealing with overwhelming feelings where I can't seem to feel comfortable with myself and I obsess over thinking these thoughts are not mine and I am not in my body and "who am I?" being the biggest one. I hate trying to constantly figure it out I just want to be free and live, I try not to feel miserable or sorry for myself but I am reaching out to anyone who has any more suggestions, I could really use some help and some hope...