We have been together 3 years.  2 years ago we moved to a new city and share a beautiful home and successful life.  The problems first started only when he drank too much.  Just here or there a big fight, he would go from happy and having fun to angry.  I had always done something wrong, as he put it, yet I never even knew what.  He would just leave the bar/restaurant/wherever we were with no explanation.  He has also gotten so drunk that he wets the bed.  The next day he would usually apologize but if I ever wanted to talk about it, especially to figure out what had even happened, he would tense up and become angry.  I started to think he was just a possible alcoholic.
Then the anger and mood swings started happening regardless of alcohol (though that still makes things dramatically worse). He will get jealous over EVERYTHING, my family, my dog, even if I am sitting next to him on the couch reading a book while he watches sports he get mad because I am not paying attention to him.  I don't know how to act and feel like no matter what I do he turns it into the wrong thing.
His dad left when he was young and he still refuses to talk to him.  He also doesn't really talk to his older brother because he was mean to him when they were in HS-making fun of him and beating him up.  I don't know the extent of either of these relationships and what effect they have actually had.  He does not like to talk about it.
He has a great job, totally uneffected by his behavior.  His friends all know he has times when he acts crazy but just ignore it for the most part.  If anyone tries to talk to him about it he blows it off.  I have noticed that some of his friends have stopped hanging out as much and I think it is because of his outbursts.
The love/hate thing-that is our relationship.  He has said such hateful things to me, it is hard to get over.  He has also been physically violent on 2 occasions, threatens me, and has broken my things that I care for most (ruined pictures, damaged my computer, torn up books, etc).  Once he even took my dog (small, indoor) and just pushed her outside into the street (we live on a busy city block).
When he has the episodes he never wants to talk about it, if i suggest he/we get professional help he gets very offended.  He gets mad at me when he does things like wet the bed.  He rarely even apologizes anymore, just wants to put it behind, like it never happened.  We live in a house that he bought.  In the past month, he has twice told me to get out (like "get the f%#* out of my house today or I will throw all your stuff out the window").  Then hours later he says to please stay.
I can see him struggling.  He wants to be the happy, fun, loving person he is 90% of the time.  He gets so embarrassed and ashamed of how he can act.  I love him and want to marry him (he has already purchased a ring and we often discuss our future) but I don't know how to deal with this. I think the reason he hasn't purposed is because he knows how unstable his behavior is.  It is very painful to see him hurting and also to deal with the emotional abuse.  I really can't live with the constant uncertainty of not having a home at any time he gets angry.  Some mornings he will wake up and not say one word to me.  Then he may continue not speaking to me for a week.  When he finally does talk to me he will act like that was totally normal. I never know why it happens and constantly obsess over going through every detail trying to figure out what I did wrong and how I could have avoided it. He really does have a hard time taking any responsibility for his behavior even though I know he knows something is very wrong, it's just hard to face.
My family is worried about my safety and they want me to move out.  I feel the same at times but I also worry that if I move out he will feel abandoned.  How do I help him see that this is not something we can handle on our own?  I've tried suggesting couples counseling (he gets so offended if I say HE needs help) but he hasn't agreed to go.  He also won't stop drinking.  After a bad episode he stops, then slowly drinks here or there, then within 4-6 months there will be a night of heavy drinking and a major outburst.  I just wait and walk on eggshells.  The same cycle over and over.  It is starting to make me feel bad about myself for allowing him to treat me this way.
What do I do? I do not have experience with BPD or any mental illness.  At what point do I leave him for my own safety and mental health?  How do I try to get him help without upsetting him?  I feel so lost.  The bottom line- I love him more than anything but am so frustrated with the unknown day to day and feeling like I am the only one who is trying to fix this.  Can our relationship ever be ok?