hi all, 
 i've never done one of these before but im in need of help. my brother (he is now 27) is having serious issues with his life. When he was young he was so nice and very energetic a loveable person however he was slow in the mind. but when we were small, me being the older brother, i would always tease him or fight him (like how normal siblings are). but as we grew older i've noticed the change in him. he started becoming negative, very low self-esteem, never does anything or has no potential in doing anything in life and has short tantrums (he gets mad very easily and rages). my parents would always tell him to get a job, go to school etc. and next thing you know they fight and argue over and over. so now he's 27, living with my parents and stays in his room (plays video games or internet) and i don't know what i can do to help motivate him or feel inspired to get him off his feet and feeling more confident. i feel my parents and i are to blame who he is now. I wish i was a better brother when we younger but now im 33, all i want to do is help him get his life back. So lately, i've been trying to hang out with him more, like go for lunch and stuff. it seems to help a little. i try not to push him to get a job or school right away, (ive done that before and he got defensive and started yelling at me). but we talked about his interests and slowly trying to build it from there. Another thing,  if something doesnt go his way he starts getting all frustrated and punching things and throwing things around. even when i help try to explain things he doesnt want to hear it. for example; his bill came and he blew up cause it had late charges. and he kept saying "they keep screwing me over, &*$% don't trust them!" i dont even argue back and help him by paying part of it or all of it, but he gets mad if i even help doing that "no cause ill owe or no cause it'll be a burden" hell start punching the walls, throwing things around and slamming his door. and next thing you know, im back to square one. i would ask him or recommend him to get help but knowing him he will get defensive. anyways im very sorry for the long question. i feel i needed to get this off my chest. ive been thinking about it alot and this situation makes me worried about him. and its very stressful. hes a great person and i love him dearly, he just needs help. Please, if anyone has any advice or anything i can do. it would be highly appreciated.