My husband of 26 years moved out 2 months ago.  He said he couldn't be here anymore.  It turns out he was having an affair with an employee.  He lost his position in the company and was demoted and had to move to another city or lose his job.  A week after he moved out, he tells me I'm his best friend and probably always will be.  It's been a bit of a roller coaster ride ever since he told me about the other woman.  It seemed like he was changing his mind every couple of days.  At the point he moved out, he couldn't stand being here and could see no good in me or the marriage, but within just a few days, that seemed to change, and he admitted he had to think all those bad things in order to do what he did.  We attempted counseling, but his heart wasn't really in it.  In the therapist's office he'd say he was going to end it, but when he'd go back to work, she undid all the progress that was made in therapy (at this point, I didn't know it was a co-worker...he had said it was a customer).  A week ago, he called and said he loves me and wanted to make things work.  He sent her a text telling her he loves his wife and was going back to me.  That lasted about 4 days...until he read a few texts from her.  Then he got depressed and said he should never have called me and said he wanted to work things out.  The next day he said we should work on a "marriage contract".  He came to town that weekend and when I saw his list, I was disgusted and hurt.  It included things like "must have sex when I want, how I want, whether you want to or not", "you have to accept that I look at and lust other women", "I am free to come and go as I want, without being questioned", "I am the decision maker", "do as I ask", etc.  There were some okay things on the list, but I felt so disrespected by the others.  I told him I felt his contract was completely one-sided and no one would agree to those things unless they had no self respect or were just lying to get him.  I also told him it sounded more like the description of a single man, not a marriage contract.  After going over our lists and negotiating, our son came over for a visit.  It was awkward because we couldn't discuss anything, so I told our son we were going to go talk for a while and we'd be back.  We drove over to the lake to talk and almost immediately after I pulled out the lists so we could talk, he told me he doesn't want to be married anymore and that he wants to be free to go to the bar and if he sees someone, be free to be with them if he wants.  I was crushed.  We came back to the house and he told our son he was going ahead with the divorce.  I didn't talk to him much for a couple of days, only a couple of texts which were brief but necessary.  He ended up calling me and asking what was wrong.  I told him how his list made me feel and how it made me lose what little respect I had left for him.  He tried softening it all up by saying it's not how he meant it and he was sorry.  He called me yesterday and said he got the list back out and read it again and was sorry for how it made me feel...said I was a good person and didn't deserve that.  He has my head spinning with all this.  I know he loves me, but I also know he's developed feelings for the other woman, despite how it was supposed to be just sex.  My counselor says I need to end things and make sure he knows they're ended.  It's just so hard when I still love him and I know he loves me too, and I know one day he will regret all he's lost.  I feel like I understand why he's doing what he's doing...he's depressed and just wants to feel good, so he's going for the quick fix instead of doing the work to feel better.  I want to save him from himself, but I know I can't.  How do I just give up on our marriage?  I know it wasn't perfect, but it wasn't as bad as he's convinced himself either.  I can't remember how many times we've both said to each other that we didn't know what we would do without the other and how we were each other's best friend and the only person we could count on.  Where the problem came was, putting our relationship on hold to deal with crisis after crisis, either with our son, or losing my Mom and then 2 1/2 months later losing his Dad.  Should I give up?  Should I hang on and fight?  Any suggestions?