Hi everyone my name is Jen.  I have been married for 6 years and we have 2 children. My question to everyone is why cant I get over my past?  Heres the story...
    My mother was a heavy drinker. I grew up playing the video games in bars. ( literally)  Before things turned for the worse my mother was a very happy drunk. So my brother and I would be able to be around her. When I turned about 6 the drinking beer turned into Rum, captain morgan, and everything else.  She became a violent women. She left us at stores forgetting about us, when we'd be at the bar with her she would leave us there and drive home drunk.  She was very emotionally abusive. She thought my brother was the world, and started blaming me for everything wrong in her life.  By the time I was 8 we never really saw our mother anymore. She left us home while she went to the bar. When we would see her she was physically violent towards me. ( hitting, shoving, and being thrown down the stairs).  She went to rehab for 6 weeks at a time and was in there every other month.  Our step dad took care of us during this time. He always worked 2nd shift so he was gone at nights. Things always went back to how it was though. By the age of 13 I couldn't do it anymore.I ran away 3 times. The third time a cop picked me up and I refused to go back.   I went to go live with my dad and step mom who just moved back from Montana. I didn't talk to my mom for 4 years after that and   I went thru therapy until the age of 20, I personally have forgiven my mom and we have even talked about what happened.  I'm 25 years old now and in my heart I feel like I'm okay.  My mother and I have been working on our relationship for years and its not great but we talk on the phone and I see her at least twice a month. But if I go into a bar I have a panic attack, Even a bar and grill I start to clam up and then I start shaking. It's like everything around my goes black and I break down.  A month ago my husband asked me to try to go to buffalo wild wings so I agreed.  We took it very slow. ( 40 min for me just to enter the door) I was calm and we sat down and then it happened.  My husband had to carry me out to the car because I couldn't physically move.  I drink about 2 times a year if that in my own home and I'm just fine. I don't know why this is still with me.  I know I'm over it but its like my brain does not want me to forget.  I"ve been to the doctors and nothing is wrong with me. Does anyone have any ideas how I can get over this cause clearly somewhere in my mind I'm not okay with my past. I want to move on. I did therapy, I talked  to her about it, I forgave her, what else am i missing?