I think that many of us here have experienced some adverse event that has shaped our life and us as people.  I think many of us who post here still suffer from negative emotions.
 I think the original post came back to the aspect that many people with bpd leave relationships.  This is especially true of therapeutic relationships.  The drop out rate of this patient population is generally high.  I was a little surprised that this aspect of bpd was not known to the poster.
 I'm sorry that you have been hurt by someone with bpd from your past.
 In order to move on in life I think that there has to be a degree of forgiveness and compassion.  I think that if a person were to understand anothers experience, etc that they would be better able to see things and perhaps even be able to empathize with them.
 Some of your symptoms now are what many people with bpd live with on a daily basis.  Many people with bpd also haven't had the luxury of having learnt the necessary life skills to deal with these.  While anger is an important part of the grief process, and we are all mourning some loss, it is not constructive to blame people.  I can blame my parents, they can blame their parents, where does it stop?
 I found some of the language offensive.  It did communicate the intensity of your feelings though.  I know that when I am unwell substituting swear words for others doesn't really seem to convey the same message.
 I think what has happened/ is happening is that we are all relating to someone elses story and based on our own personal histories are being triggered by different themes.  I think a lot of the emotions are the same though.  I think many of us feel hurt, many of us feel angry.  I think we just differ in the intensity of those emotions and perhaps also how well we regulate them.
 My intention is not to continue a thread (that we have been asked to cease from) but to continue a discussion about feelings, etc.  I think it is important that we all get an opportunity to say what we need too.  I have had experiences where others haven't been prepared to listen to what I have had to say and I've found this more damaging.
 I personally believe we need the opportunity and space to discuss things, to feel heard and to feel validated by others.
 Would you like to talk about you now and what you feel is preventing you from moving on?
 I implore that medhelp allow us to have these conversations.  I don't think turning a blind eye to peoples distress is the answer.