My Fiance and I have been engaged for a little over 7 months. We plan on getting married in September 2012. We have been close since Freshman year. Now were Graduating HS and its time for us to start getting serious with our plans for our future. It was difficult in its self until recently it got a lot lot worse, when I found out his parents hate me. They have always been distant when trying to get to know me but it changed everything when they openly told me to get my own life and let my Fiance go. Next year they plan on driving my Fiance to work and COLLEGE an hour away everyday that is if he doesn't go away to play hockey. Not to mention they live in a camper trailer while their house is being built. My Fiance has been sharing a room with his younger sister the size of a closet since 9th grade. They have a very close nit family.. so close that his younger sister 15 still holds hands with their father in public. I can see its hard for them to let their little boy go but even negotiation is useless.  Because I was raised very differently than their son and I do not associate myself with a religion... their religion... I am sinning to god... or so they say. Even though I do have similar beliefs and am open to God. As of now they are doing everything they can to split us up. Saying hurtful things to me and my family at times but kind around their son or for their son. On the other hand my family loves my Fiance and support us completely. It really breaks my heart though that after asking to be part of their family they have completely rejected me. They are also making it really difficult on my Fiance because they doing everything possible to please him and convince him that it wont work to make me look like the bad guy. I really just need any advice I can get. I have never been disrespectful to them even when they attacked me and said extremely hurtful things to me. I really have no idea why they hate me so much I have even in the past tried to help bring the family closer during rough times and defending them when my fiance complained about them. That is up until now. If anyone has been through this please help. This situation has been making me extremely depressed (I have bipolar) and its been causing issues between my fiance. We love each other very much and we both wish that his family would just behave and be happy for us like my family is. Thanks.