Okay, so for the past 2 years I've been anything but myself. Throughout primary and the first 2 years of secondary school, i was extremely confident and spoke my mind. I confess that I'd once been an extreme flirt and had no self esteem issues whatsoever, which i know makes me sound like a completely self loving person and i suppose i was. Anyway, in year 8 i experienced some bullying which i assumed hadn't affected me, but maybe i was wrong. I was told to kill myself and endured a couple of months of having next to no friends, which for a child that had always been at the top definitely threw me off balance. I contemplated self pity but i knew that would get me no where and stupidly didn't tell my parents or family members about what was going on. So i've had that bottled up inside me for the past few years. After that, i changed friendship groups and ended up with the friends i have today, who i will say i do love. But out of the four of them i'm not really remotely close to any, not to the stage of feeling i can share anything personal. That brings me round to the holiday of 2011, where i met possibly the most amazing person i'll ever meet, kind of. I spent the vast majority of my holiday with a towel wrapped around me, either reading by myself or watching tv in the room. This was partially to do with my non-existent self esteem issues which i'll speak about later and because i didn't feel comfortable with speaking to anyone else. Then with 5 days left to go, a new family arrived with the boy that i might be forever in love with. Ugh, that sounds so sickly. Let me elaborate. We instantly made a connection, he kissed me and it all went from there. He lived around 300 miles away from me, so it was an extremely long distance relationship. I had him come stay with me for a week and it made me love him more, then after only a short 5 months he ended it and made no contact with me. 2 weeks later, his best friend told me he was already in a new relationship and i suppose the fact that the only person I've ever loved had broken my heart, moved on and did not care for me any more, is adding to this feeling of me going crazy. I am experiencing a lot of anxiety and struggle to leave the house. When walking around by myself i keep my head down and my eyes to the floor, walking as fast as i can. I have shortness of breath a tight chest a shaky feeling whenever I'm in public. My nana hasn't left the house in around 10 years, because she has a disorder that makes her afraid to be outside, and i'm unsure if it could possibly be genetic? I've lost all interest in doing things i used to love, being a reckless teenager doesn't excite me anymore. My friends have stopped asking me to come out because they know that i will only tell them no. I sleep for the majority of the day on weekends or holidays, and lie awake all night. Although, if i was left alone i could sleep for weeks on end and still be tired. I apologise for the length of this paragraph, i'm trying to hurry it up. The last thing is my nana has recently been diagnosed with cancer and because of her other disorder struggles to go to the hospital without having a panic attack. She just sits in the house all day, and my mam is the one who's taking care of her. My mam is barely at home anymore, she's constantly at nana's house and i rarely get to see her. The fact that her mother is so ill is putting strain on her and i realise that so i try to be supportive, but i'm struggling to keep myself together. The rare times when she is home, she's never happy and is always on my back. I never see her smile and her eyes are constantly red and tired looking. I have episodes where i can't control my anger and the stress of everything is making it all worse. I have lucid moments of feeling extremely confident, like i can do anything and that i'm better than everyone. But after that follows strong bouts of depression, where i feel useless and cry for no reason. I feel i need to get out of my skin, because it's suffocating me. There's never usually anyone home, my dad is working or going to nana's with my mam, my sister is working or at her boyfriends and then there's me. Since i don't go out with friends and there's no one home to talk to, i find that i'm talking to myself constantly. Not in an extremely psychotic way, but because i'm   always alone i do it without realising it. I could list so much more, but this is the basics, someone please help?