Hello all,
 I found out last week that I am pregnant with my boyfriend of almost 1 year (In July), after realizing I was 5 days late. He was with me when I took the ept tests, so that part is out of the way. I was sad when I got the positive results, because I know for sure that I am not ready to be a mother. I just finished up my first year of college as a pre-pharmacy student, and I still have 5 more hard years to go. At the same time I realize that people do things out of order and still accomplish what they want to accomplish. Other than school, the fact that I only work as a part time Hollister employee and part time pharmacy technician, cannot drive, still live at home, and have family who loves me but is still counting on me to make it... Yes, lots of pressure. I had one job, not to get knocked up. Couldn't even do that. 
 My oldest sister got pregnant at this same age, and though we love our niece/granddaughter/etc... I saw firsthand how disappointed my family was, and how my father literally disowned her. They've been telling me for years that they didn't want me to end up like her, and I always assured them not to worry. I can't even imagine how disappointed they would be if I told them. 
 At this point, I am faced with whether or not to keep the baby. I'm not sure how far along I am, and my obgyn says they can't give me a blood test to confirm all that until 6-8 weeks after my last MP. As of now, my appointment is on the 16th of June (btw, is it normal that they are making me wait to take a blood test???) 
 My boyfriend has been very supportive, plans to go with me to any and all appointments that he can make it to (lives about an hour away, works, lives with his parents but is looking into our own apt, owns his own car, we visit each other pretty regularly) but has been pretty clear that he thinks I should get an abortion bc we aren't ready. 
 I'm not super religious but at the end of the day, I believe that God makes things happen for a reason. So I wonder if He wants me to have a child even though I am young. I would hate to get an abortion and go against the fate that is meant for me. I am scared and I don't know what else to say or do and I need someone's help. 
 Ps. No one knows besides us two, his cousin and his sister. Thought about telling my oldest sister since she has actually had an abortion before and has had a child at this age and could offer some advice. But I'm scared. Help.