I am FREAKING OUT. Not sure if it's withdrawals from Celexa, or side effects from the Wellbutrin SR.
 Took 40mg of Celexa for a year and Psychiatrist switched me to Wellbutrin SR 150mgs a day. He told me to stop the Celexa cold turkey. That I'd be fine, and just start taking the Wellbutrin SR the next day. This was on Oct 4th that I started the Wellbutrin SR and stopped the Celexa. Glad my sex drive is back, but other than that, I feel like taking my head off with a chainsaw about 1/2 the time. I have also taking a small amount of Klonopin (1mg a day) for teh last year, but have never had problems with that.
 My head is buzzing and zapping, I'm nauseous, dizzy as %#^&, arms feel hollow, I get this weird feeling behind my eyes, a "falling" sensation, feeling disconnected, sometimes my head feels like it's full of water swishing around and it's SCARY.
  I started to feel weird about 3 days after stopping the Celexa and starting the Wellbutrin SR. I went in to see the Psychiatrist in a panic on the 14th when these symptoms worsened. He said I was just being anxious and it was all in my head. When I told him I thought it was because he pulled me off the Celexa cold turkey, he got all pissed. He said that there was no such thing as withdrawals from Celexa, especially at the dose I was on (again, 40mgs a day for a year).  I told him that I read on the internet that if you are pulled off of it without tapering, you can feel like **** and all kinds of stuff can happen. Then he went into a whole "If you are going to try and tell me how to do my job, I will refuse to treat you", then he went on to say that I was being difficult, interrupting him, etc, 
 I was sitting there crying, begging for him to help me. I felt so frail and scared. and all he could do was be a total jackass.
 Since my Psychiatrist is being a jerk about it, I'm thinking of getting a referral from my GP to a different
one and see what he says. I may have to call my lawyer first though as my psyche is through a workman's comp case.(I was assaulted by my boss) I mean, I'd pay the co-pay myself to see the other Psychiatrist, I wouldn't expect
the Comp insurance to cover it.  I just feel like I'm losing my effin' mind.  And I have been horrible to my wonderful husband. Poor guy. I've been snappy, bossy and just totally messed up. I think he's only tolerating it because
the sex has been so amazing - LOL (at least I have THAT!)
 I just don't know how long I can take these symptoms. Have tried no caffeine, no sugar,
exercising.  I try to keep my mind off it by surfing the net, hot showers, baths, TV, reading... nothing helps.  
I am coming unhinged and completely spun out.
 I just need to know if this sounds like Celexa withdrawls or Wellbutrin side effects. If these are Wellbutrin side effects, I want to come off it at once, but I sure as heck don't want to be withdrawing from 2 meds at the same time.
 I am so scared, I'm even afraid to drive. Someone please help :(  Any advice about the meds, the symptoms, the Psychiatrist, or what I can do to feel better would be VERY much appreciated.
 Thanks in advance for your kindness.