Can unconsciousness (coma) for 3 days be a reason for my depression and social anxiety?
Hi I am from Nepal. 
 I once met a road accident when I was about 10 years old.I am 23 years now. I fell to the ground from running vehicle (bus). I cannot exactly remember the event up to now that what caused the accident. But I can remember when and from where i rode the bus, where I was going, my friends with me in the bus and the seat I was on. 
 Immediately after the accident it developed deafness in my right ear but not completely deaf. But there was no bleeding from ear or the head except a swelling at the right side of my head. By the age of 18 I became completely deaf on right ear.(Single Sided Deafness SSD). A doctor said that the accident might have caused the small bones of inner ear to be miss-aligned/misplaced but he does not prescribe for surgery.
 Before the accident. I used to be very outgoing. I used to play football, visit friends, take part in school's competitions like quiz. I was good in studies always with 1st Rank. More importantly I was happy and spontaneous. But now I feel depressed, and anxious to meeting relatives, family friends and attain social gatherings like wedding parties and festivals,
 By the age of 15 I realized my learning power is degrading. I feel dizzy and my head shakes involuntary while i focus on small objects or reading books. Though the shaking is slight which i usually do not notice myself and friends tell me about that.. I had to give extra effort to study. I feel difficult remembering lectures, lessons, instructions. I will solve tricky computer programming concept but after a few days I will forget how I developed the solution. Same is true for every courses I study. (I am studying Undergraduate Geomatics Engineering ). I feel difficulties in remember peoples face and places i visit. I try hard to remember the track i traveled in cities but cannot return to the place where I started.
 My question are:
1. Does the accident and with?coma(3 days) has relation with and/or has effect on personality disorder that i believe bothering me? specially social anxiety and depression
2. Is it possible to bring memory power to normal? Are there medication available?
3. Can the SSD due to inner ear bones shift be corrected by surgery though it has been long years since the accident?
 Unfortunately I could not get proper treatments in Nepal. I visited many hospitals and have CT scans but doctor do not speak anything about my problem and the solution. 
 Thanks,