Sorry if this is the wrong forum, but hopefully someone can provide some insight.  I'm a 39 year old female with 17 years of thoracic back pain. I've gone to chiropractors, acupuncture, physical therapists, used TENS machine, muscle relaxers, celebrex, etc. etc. Drs told me I have fibromyalgia, told me to do exercises to improve my posture, prescribe pain killers, you know the deal.
 After dealing with this for years I decided to take a different approach and went to an orthopedic surgeon. He ordered an MRI of my thoracic back. The MRI report says they found hemangiomatas in T3, T6, T7, T9, and T11, with atypical hemangiomas in T7 and T9.
 When I emailed the orthopedic surgeon about the MRI report he emailed back and said "You don't have any specific structural problem in the spine that is responsible for your symptoms, indicating this is primarily a muscular problem. Regarding the hemangiomas, don't worry they're not cancerous. They are very common. They are typically very small and do not cause any problems, and I believe that is the case for you. There is nothing in your actual spinal column that you should be worried about at this time."
 I faxed the MRI report to my chiropractor and he said basically the same thing - don't worry, you don't need surgery. I said, "Even if these tumors are begin, if they're growing that could be causing my pain." He said "Hemangiomas don't change. If the hemangiomatas were causing your pain you would have a fracture in your spine. And you would have pain in your spine, but your pain is mainly in between your two shoulder blades."
 I then said just to make sure I heard him right "So you're saying that hemangiomas don't change?"
He then got a little huffy and said "Look, you can chase this thing, have 10 MRIs done and go to all these specialists, but the answer is all going to be the same." He said I could get trigger point injections but in his experience the relief doesn't last very long.
 Now, to be honest, the pain that is the worst for me is basically two spots on each side of my spine, in between my shoulder blades. But I also have pain that goes from the top of my shoulder, down each side of the spine to my lumbar spine. I don't want to sound like a hypochondriac, but maybe the pain is so bad from the muscle spasms that I don't notice any pain in my spine?  
 Am I silly to think that these hemangiomas might be causing my back pain? I don't understand how they can say it's not causing problems, when they only have the one MRI, so they have no idea if the tumor has changed or grown over the years. And really, is a bone fracture the only way to tell if a tumor is growing?