First, I'd like to give you a bit of a background on me. I've been struggling with depression and since I was a senior in high school. I was hospitalized for a week my senior year because I wanted to kill myself. I recently completed my sophomore year of college. Last summer I was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. I am in a long distance relationship. He lives in GA and we've been together for a little over a month. I just found out that the guy I'm supposed to be living with when school starts back up got his girlfriend pregnant and won't be living there anymore. This sticks me with the financial burden of carrying the lease by myself or finding a roommate that I can trust to pay rent, which is unlikely. 
 On top of all of that, my 16 year old nephew committed suicide April 12th. 
 Now, I've found myself back into a very deep and very dark depression. I can't get out of bed. I haven't taken a shower in almost a week. I cry constantly. I can't eat. I can't sleep for more than a couple of hours a night. I've been having suicidal thoughts. I have been in a constant state of panic for over a week, having multiple panic attacks a day. It's exhausting. 
 I reached out to the county counseling center. They got me in for an outpatient crisis intervention. They wanted to put me in the hospital, but I refused. Instead, I signed a safety plan. 
 The CNP put me on 20mg of Celexa daily and 2mg of Valium as needed. 
 My anxiety is worse now than ever. My body gets hot and tingly. My stomach twists and turns and knots up. I can't breathe and my chest gets tight. I feel this way almost every second of everyday. It's only gotten worse since I started taking Celexa three days ago. I understand that it takes time for meds to build up in your system, but the Valium has done NOTHING to help my anxiety and my depression is still just as awful. n 
 I hate that I have to be on medication. I hate myself because I let it get back to this point. I hate that I cannot control my anxiety. I feel like such a failure. 
 My anxiety is out of control and my depression is crippling. 
 My question is, has anybody else experienced out of control anxiety while taking Celexa? If so, how did you combat the problem?