Hi, I'm 18 years old and lately I have started obsessing about the fact that I might have schizophrenia. Schizophrenia runs in my family, my uncle (from my dad's side) had it and he passed it on to his daughter, my cousin. I started reading online about the symptoms of schizophrenia, I know that wasn't such a great idea, but there were some symptoms that I could relate to. I mean there were always small things that made me worry that I might have it but now there are more distinct things going on that are really concerning me. For instance, I am constantly bombarded by thoughts that don't belong to me and it's pretty hard to get them out. These thoughts mostly happen when I am alone, when it's quiet, when I'm reading, and when I'm trying to fall asleep. Some of the thoughts are repetitive and some just come out of nowhere. Sometimes these thoughts can really mess with my concentration at school, like I will have to read a sentence over and over again until it finally sinks in. A couple of years ago I used to see shadows that would run across really fast, and I never really thought it was weird, but now I'm doubting that. Also, sometimes just out of nowhere I'll start thinking about someone like a friend for example and I'll say (out loud) she's such a b***ch and I'll snap out of it and be like no she's not, and this is something that happens to me all the time and I just can't help it, it comes out of nowhere. I read that one of the symptoms is feeling someone touching you when there is no one there. That happened to me once, it felt like someone's finger brushed against my lower back, and that was terrifying to say the least. Another I suffer from is mood swings. I will just wake up one day and just be so mad at the world, and the next moment I feel happy and complete. I just need some advice from someone who has experienced this or knows someone who has experienced this, about what they think this might be. Maybe I might not have schizophrenia but I definitely know something is wrong!