I am 21 year old and belong to a conservative family so when they though it was time for me to get married they fixed me up and I tried to resist but it did not work. So now I am married to a guy whom I hate litrary hate him. I told him also before my marriage that I was not sure about it but he did not take it seriously and ignored it. He likes me and loves me but I don't not at all. I don't even like it when he makes conversations with me . I can't even think of him touching me even the thought puts me in a bad mood. He is very possive and insecure which makes me hate him even more I just cnt stand him.what kind of a man he is inspire of knowing that I don't want to be with him he still wouldn't let go off me.its like mental torture. If I am sleeping when he's out on his work and he calls me but if I don't pick up he will continue to call me 70 times 80 times which is kind of very frustrating and then he tells his mom to check up on me. I hv had enough of him and want to get out of this marriage. Finaly told my parents that I cnt live with him not even a day more otherwise I'll end my life. So they finaly agreed but he is still not leaving me he told all his friends that I have a bad character. I can't stand him even more and now he is telling people everybody and acting innocent and telling me to come back. Why isn't he just leaving me I want to leave him but he is making it really impossible. I even told him on his face that I don't like you and I don't want to be with you but he just wouldn't leave me alone! He is now telling my relative to call me and explain me how nice he is how much he loves me and the worst part is everybody think he is actually a nice guy but only I know how sly he is.I look fine and I am just 21 he is 25 and damn ugly in my eyes atleast. Now my relatives keep calling me they tell me I won't get another guy or somebody who loves me like he does, that I'll bring shame on my family by divorcing him. HELPPP! Please help Me how do I deal with this situation. Please don't tell me to give him another chance. Please help