0
 Am I a lesbian/bi in denial? Help me plz!!!!!
 Let me just start by stating that I am a teen who truly does not want to be lesbian or bi. And I have nothing against those of you who are, I just want to live a heterosexual lifestyle. And please don't say what's wrong with being gay because I know nothing is wrong with it I just don't want that.  My anxiety also triggered when I watch a coming out video of one of the youtubers and started questioning if that could be me too. Since then, I've been worried and a little anxious that I could be gay. Since I was young, I only had crushes on guys, fantasize about them, and would grab my pillow and pretend I was kissing one. Up until this summer, my mind has been telling me that I'm gay or planting this seed that I need to come out. Each day I check on the internet to read signs about homosexuality, but I just don't seem to fit the description. I feel so confused right now. It's like I don't know if I'm gay or not. I think deep down I'm straight but all this confusion is making me think otherwise. To be honest, being straight seems so natural to me, to be anything otherwise is just uncomforable.  I believe my family would accept me if I was gay, even though it wud be hard. I keep checking on the web to see if this is normal, and found i could be suffering from  HOCD.I believe i have it, but i worry i could be in denial. Sometimes I watch porn and have felt aroused to lesbian porn, but i also get aroused by other porn. I stopped watching porn due to this, but lately started back watching lesbian porn but wasnt that intrigued by it like I use to. Also, I've taken many sexuality quizzes and all my results were Hetersexual. My mind constantly thinks I could be lesbian, which I don't get nervous about anymore (it worries me that I don't get nervous about that), but I do feel uncomfortable and feel the need to push it out of my head. Sometimes, I feel like the way I sit or talk is gay, or if I dress a certain way, I feel the need to change it. I don't believe being a lesbian fits me, and if I happened to be with a girl, i would end up feeling more like friends than lovers.My family says I have a tendency to worry about stuff. I am currently crushing on a boy but I don't have intense feelings for him or get nervous around him which concerns me because I've read that other lesbians or bi people have dated guys in the past but haven't had intense feelings for them. Before this all happened, I was never concerned about this and my feelings for boys were so intense, but now my sex drive has kinda decreased. Let me emphasize that I hope this is something else and not me actually in denial of my homosexuality. The thing is being straight feels natural too me and I probably know deep down that I'm straight but my mind is trying to convince me that I'm not. Please be nice about it. I'm really worried!  
P.S.  Im nervous because I'm not as panicky like I use to be, and fear this is me accepting myself as a homosexual when i don't want that. Is this normal. Am or do I sound straight? And also, is this a sign that I'm becoming gay because I tend to look at girls a lot, but not in a sexual way but because I notice how pretty they are and I guess I compare myself to them? I still love guys but I fear that they're might be a possibility that I could be a lesbian or bi.