Hi,
 If anyone could help me I'd really appreciate it. I've been experiencing scary symptoms since February after having a cold. These are mainly a horrible dizzy, light headed spaced out unbalanced feeling which is sometimes there sometimes not, muscle twitches, weight and appetite loss, pins and needles, numbness and lots of other weird sensations. I was terrified for weeks of MS but the neurologist ruled it out and diagnosed a post viral illness. But then I began to get stabbing pains mainly in arms, legs, hands and feet, and slight aches. None of these are painful as such and do not last long but worry me. I have been back to my doctor and he reassured me that it is post viral and 
I will get better and said the pains do not suggest anything serious, and put me on anti depressants (only been on them 3 weeks so no effect yet) as he thinks some of this is due to my anxiety over this. But I worry CONSTANTLY that there is something worse wrong or that something has been overlooked or I am developing another condition. Could it be possible that these weird pains are caused just by worry? They seem to happen at any time, not particularly when I am panicking (although I have been constantly anxious for 4 months). Also, is it possible to get almost constant dizziness/light headed feeling from anxiety? Again, this comes and goes at random and does not seem related to anything. I don't know how to stop the worry and feel as if I am losing my mind, even though 2 doctors have said I will be okay I just can't make myself believe them and just think the worst all the time. When I do get reassurance I feel okay for a few hours then just go back to worrying again. It is getting very hard to cope living with living in constant fear, I just can't face most things I used to do because I panic every time I get a symptom, and going to work is a nightmare. I know that I am very stressed and it is becoming hard to know if I am even making any of this happen to myself! If anyone has any advice please help, how do I cope with this?