I have spinal nodule/tumor on lower L4 Nerve Roots (Lumbar MRI w/contrast showed)
and cauda equina symptoms for a year now, also bladder retention (self-cath), 
bowel problems/colon pain, extreme fatigue (sleep 20 hrs at a time most days/nights, 
unexplained weight loss of 45 pounds within last year. Severe unbearable worsening pain (even with
prescription pain meds) through low lumbar, hips, pelvic, sacral & tailbone (can't sit - too painful).
Nerve testing showed Demyelinating Neuropathy & Radiculopathy in low Lumbar & Sacral area. 
I am just too ill, weak, and fatigued to follow-up w/neurosurgeon and cant handle the ride.
so I'm unable to get into Neurosurgeon for follow-up and biopsy of tumor.
 I also have increasing blood spots on randomely on body (petechia-like) since all this.
Two weeks ago I had CBC blood test w/man diff. and pathologist tested blood smear which
showed now I have Neutropenia (low neutrophils and other types WBCs low on Man. diff.) 
and high iron (I don't take any iron supplements, no reason for high iron, never high before) 
Also have had irregular shaped rbcs ovalocytes & poikiocytosis, & reactive lymphs of 40% 
all since this tumor and symptoms started in early 2014. Past CBCs w/Diff used to be normal before all this.
 Any ideas on if this could all be from cancer somewhere, like in blood or bone marrow or
maybe tumor is cancer causing all this & irregular blood findings?
Could a tumor in spine cause these nerve test findings? I need advice on what type of specialist would be
most urgent to see for this - Hematologist or bone marrow biopsy or other specialist to check into all
the illness, wt. loss, blood irregularities, etc. and if all from tumor or other problem(s).
 I am desperate for answers/advice (I am so limited by my illness & financially), so I need to go
only to a specialist that would be most important for these problems to get these answers and 
any needed further testing, but I don't know where to start and just getting weaker, more pain, fatigue, etc. 
 Any advice would be greatly appreciated! 
Thank you so much for your time and any advice you can give.