I have been married to my husband for 8 years now, and have always seen the depression side of things for as long as i have known him. But about 5 years ago he started acting alittle different, starting with inappropreate flirtations and actions with women at work. He has always had a problem with seperation with me, i have only gone on one vacation with out him, and during that time he cheated on me with my sis in law. ever since then he freaks out if I mention I am going to go somewhere. His Anxiety is ruling his world, along with what seems to be mixed states of Bipoloar. He isnt working anymore, which means I am looking for a job now . But each time I mention a job interview or going to work he flips out. He feels like he is going to die from the anxiousness and pain inside. He usually sleeps the entire time i am gone, which is either induced by xanax (per the dr) or Pot...(per his dad!) He has had 5 suicidal attempts, once with a gun, twice with a razor and his arm, and twice just talking about how much he wanted to die. He has been hospitalized twice and diagnosed with  major depression, anxiety, PTSD, agoraphobia for a few months last year, schizoaffective disorder and now Bipolar, maybe along with BPD or ADHD. Each time they change his diagnosis something else comes up and they have to change it again. He has been on quite a few antidepressants as well as two antipsychotics. But so far not much has helped.Zoloft helps the most out of anything, but it kinda plateau's  at its highest strength of 200 mg, and he continues to struggle with the depression. recently the dr took him off invega (the diagnosis was the schizo one at the time) because it obviously wasnt doing anything good, and also took him down to a 50 mg of zoloft. She desided he was mainly Bipolar, with possible BPD and ADHD, so put him on Lamictal. SOOOOOO MY QUESTION IS....Since the Lamictal wont take action for a few weeks shouldnt she keep him on a higher dose of Zoloft until then? When she took him down he LEPT into the deep depression and nightly mixed state again!!! But she isnt avaliable to speak with until next week, and no one else can give us answers as to whether we need to up the dose of zoloft for a bit or not!! I am scared he will become suicidal again, and even if not, I cannot live with him in this mixed state ****! He is rude and selfish, and nasty to live with. he wont make eye contact or even answer my simple questions during these times. He argues the meds he knows he should take. and he is up all night pacing or walking around our yard. so any help here? I honestly dont know what to do. I think he is BPD for sure, I have studied it in great lengths and He fits the profile, but the dr argues saying that it cant be treated with meds so she will only look at the bipolar symtoms.  
I am, and of course my husband is as well, SICK of the ups and downs of the diagnosis ****! and I mean i understand switching meds to find the right mix, but they cant even figure out what is really going on with him!! and I am ready to bail. I have lived thru this for too long, and If we cant find the answers soon I cant handle it any longer! sorry, had to vent.  anyway, any words of wisdom? any insights of what may be really going on??