My first sexual memory I can remember was when I was very young, around 5 years old. My next door neighbour would babysit me when my parents were away. On evenings when my parents would get back very late (they worked very late hours both as doctors) my neighbour (perhaps 12-14 years at the time?) would ask me if I wanted to do some "grown-up" activities, telling me that I had to keep it top secret and not tell anybody and that I could stop at any time if I didn't like it. Obviously wanting to know what he meant I was very curious and went along. He would pull down my pants and masturbate me gently. I didn't really know what was going on but was curious to let him handle me. All I remember was that he did to me felt amazing. I had never felt like that before so I let him touch me as he wished. As it was pleasurable, I didn't tell my parents or anyone else, as I didn't want it to stop. It got more involved as time went on. Soon I was doing the same to him and at the most involved stage, he would perform oral sex on me. It never went any further than that and at some stages when he babysat me and I refused his advances because I was tired or didn't feel like it, he would leave me be. We moved a few years later and I forgot about it completely. For years after I was intrigued over what happened. 
 When I was older, around 10 years, the same thing happened again. I had a friend who lived next door who was around 18 years. We were really good friends and I would often sleep over at his place while my parents worked late. As time went on, things became more and more sexual. Up until the point where I asked him if he wanted to touch me. Once again we would masturbate each other and perform oral sex. I don't know quite how to describe it, but it made me feel so much better about myself. That I could express myself in a way I didn't think possible. To let someone make me feel so good.  
 Obviously years on, I understood what had actually happened, but I never told anyone. I wasn't scarred or emotionally changed at all. I actually enjoyed what happened. I know that this isn't normal and I haven't told anyone about what had happened, knowing that they would immediately jump to the conclusion that I was abused, when in fact, I enjoyed it. I just feel as though I had to get this out somewhere. Now myself, I would never try what happened to me on anyone, nor would I ever think of abusing anyone in anyway. People probably think that I would be completely messed up by now, but I am actually in my final year of business and accounting at college. In fact, I sometimes babysit my next door neighbours and my friends brother, but everything is strictly professional. I would never think of harming them in anyway or repeating what happened to me. 
 I just wonder if anyone has ever hone through something as similar as me and have felt the way I did? I know there's not a lot of info on this particular scenario, but it did get me wondering. Are there others who have gone through what I have? Please understand that this is the first time I have ever come forward with this. Thought I would finally get this off my chest.