Lately I have been dealing with depression and anxiety, which I have had for many many years but got to where I could handle it but now my depression is coming back so is my anxiety.  My husband is mentally and emontionally abusive(I've posted about that here and in the abuse support forum before).  I feel as if I'm just starting to believe everything he tells me.  Like I'm a sorry piece of trash that all my family is dope heads and that that is what I will be that I have nobody and nothing, that I'm just some high school drip out with no jib and no one here for me.  He wants sex a lot and when I say no he gets mad, makes smart remarks and things like that, there's been a few times where he's actually tried so much that I just gave in and pretty much laid there, or I would pretend I liked it(even tho it does sound bad I did that, he just kept trying after saying no)I love him but I feel like maybe I've pulled myself away from him, I fell almost as if he's a complete stranger.  I no longer feel comfortable changing cloths, or getting a shower or nothing like that in front of him.  I've become so afraid, and ashamed of my body and things he has told me that I don't even want to look at myself.  I've became so ashamed of my body that I don't even like going out in public.  He even talks bad about the type of shoes that I wear.  And even when I put on deorderent that smells good he makes the comment "are you getting all dressed up and smell good for your boyfriend or something" just thinking about how low I feel of myself now, it just makes me so upset to the point that I will actually cry.  Everything I try to do to make him happy, seems like it does nothing at all.  I don't even talk to anybody for anything at all bc of the things he would say to me if I did, if we go somewhere I make him talk to all the people.  I've even just let my self go to the point that I don't even have cloths I can wear, I wear his shirts, his shorts bc there stretchy.  I try to make myself feel better, but it's so hard when he akes the comments of me doing things for someone else or I want a job so I can get someone else, or that I'm a sorry piece of trash, no good or don't have anything better in my life to do or something like that.  I hid everything that goes on from everybody and act like everything is ohk, when it's not.  I wish I had a way that I could be happier, that I could actually have a life.  I have a 15 month old and I'm afraid of getting him taken away, that's why I'm still here with my husband I don't have anyone else I could stay with.  Or anyone else that could help me):