Hi. This is my first post. Thanks in advance for any advice. This will be a little long. 
 We met in April of 2014 as friends.. In July him and his girlfriend split and she moved out. End of August we began to date. 
 Things were great, or so I thought. Families met, endless time spent together, great moments and memories, never fighting, wonderful sex, all seemed great. 
 End of October he starts to become distant, tells me he has been talking to his ex and he feels guilty for how their relationship ended (she attempted suicide) and he had to give it another try. I begged, I cried... Within two weeks he said he made a mistake, decided not to try and work things out with her and we got back together. 
 Repeat all of the above. Everything is great. He treats me wonderful, is sweet, romantic.. I really cannot tell you how he is everything I always wanted and after a mediocre 13 year relationship, didn't think existed. 
 Christmas eve he breaks up with me. Says it isn't because of her. He just feel we are more like friends than lovers. 
 This time I accept it. I can't change his feelings if that's how he feels. I don't beg, I don't cry to him. Two weeks pass and I find out he is with her again. He messages me and I am rude to him for the first time ever. He ends up getting in a fight with her about how he is upset that I am being rude since we work together. He ends things with her once again. Tells me that he realized because of the idea that he may lose me that he once again made a mistake. That she always makes him feel guilty about their past, and how she's nearly homeless sleeping on couches and has no money for gas even and because she is adopted she has no family and tells him he's the reason she is all alone. 
 He tells me she is toxic to him and he hasn't been himself for the 1.5 years they were together. He needs to get away from her. 
I tell him no, I won't take him back. He spent the next two weeks begging and crying. In the meantime I discover he ccreated on me with her in December. He says that' why he broke up with me, the guilt was too much. 
 More crying, more apologies, he even went as far as to go to my best friend for a sit down without my knowledge and cry to her and tell her how he has ruined the best thing he ever had and how much he loves me. 
I cave again. Now last week at almost two months back together he starts getting distant again. Tells me he needs to go to therapy. The last year of his life and his actions are driving him insane. He isn't the man he once was and he feels broken He aagain admits to talking to her yet again. Says not to get back together but to work through old unresolved issues. 
 Says he doesn't know whether we should breakup or stay together. Says his mind is consumed with everything he has done to her and I. 
Few days pass and I tell him I'll wait. He's who I want and I'll give him space to get therapy.. Then he changes his story aand says he needs to be alone. Says that he was the happiest he had ever been with his ex and he should have never not been with her. 
 This is after a million I love yous. A million promises. Introducing families and our children. Spending so much time together. And now I'm just so lost. I wish he had never came back after the Christmas breakup. How can you tell me you love me, do everything with me, involve my best friend, and then yet again decide I'm not what you want? 
I blocked him from any communication this time because I am weak to him. Even after that pathetic story I love him and wish it were me he wants but he keeps going back to this roller-coaster relationship with his ex and within a week each time realizes he doesn't want to be with her. 
This would be so much easier if we didn't work together. If aside from our yo yo relationship he were a jerk. He's sweet and romantic and thoughtful... When he is claiming to be in love with me. 
Now I'm an insecure shell of a woman. Although I know this is about him, not me, I am now questioning my worth, my looks, my personality. And what must be wrong with me. 
 Any insight into this man's mind would be great because I can't read it. Please also know, the ex and I have communicated so I know he is the one leaving her each time and not her him. Also, I am early 30, him late 30s. She is mid 20s.