Long story, short.  I'm a rather stubborn individual and I suppose rather pig-headed at times.  I think this is one of those times.  Just need to vent a bit while I try to decide what to do next.  Here goes... Last spring I was so totally stressed out at work that I was getting chest pains daily. It sort of worried me, but I figured it was just stress and tried to blow it off.  I had been having lower back pain and right arm referral pain for nearly a year, so in June I decided I would go to the MD and see if anything could be done.  Yada, yada, lots of questions... arm pain, hmm.  When was your last EKG?  Never had one.  Let's.  Sure, why not. Let's do it again.  Sure, why not.  Somethings not right.  Huh?!  I've set an appt. for you with the cardiologist for the day after tomorrow.  Huh?!! He wants a fasting blood screen.  Huh?!!!  You just took blood!  Come back in the a.m.  Stab.  Stab. Stab.  Finally.  Expressed it out.  Sat. appt. Yada, yada, lots more questions... Walkthrough angina?  Huh?!!!!  Echocardiogram  Huh?!!!!!  Nuclear stress test?!!!!!!  Can you say STRESS!  If I didn't have enough already, now I was LOADED with it!  Aside from little things on the echo, everythings fine.  Says Doc.  Try this.  Next month, try this.  Don't think about that, we'll treat the symptoms.  Huh?!!!!!!!!  Three months later... just when I felt I was starting to get a handle on things... another appt.  BP is 170/92, you may have high blood pressure.  Well, if I do, it's your fault!  OK, so I didn't say that.  Here, take this and keep a log.  Log indicated normotensive, except for occasional spikes (like when I see Doc, or the server at work goes down, or when my co-worker annoys me!)  BTW, still having chest pains.  I'm not taking that pill!  What for?  I don't want to take that one either!  I don't want to take any!!  I'm tired of all this!!!  Ooops, who's there?  Where'd the vision go in my eye?  Oh, there it is, that was weird... To friend, you know what happened to me the other day?  What?  Possible mini-stroke?  Huh?!!!!!!!  What, could indicate a major stroke could happen any time?!!!!! Call Doc?  No, don't want to....  No, don't want to.... OK, fine.  Phys. Asst. - could be a detached retina.  If it happens again, you may want to see an opthalmologist.  OK, not worried.  Literature, says worry quickly.  Doc office, no worry.  Friend - Call the cardio dude.  No, don't want to... No, don't want to... OK, FINE.  Cardiodude - well, it's not cardiovascular, it's probably nothing to worry about.  OK, not worried.  Literature, says worry quickly.  Doc office, no worry.  Cardiodude, not worried.  Spinnning in circles...  Screw it all.  Hmmm,  I don't want to see you anymore, Doc.  If I don't see you, I'm bound to start feeling better.  After all, the server's fixed, and my coworker is more aware of the fact that I'll flip out on him if he starts up again.  All it takes is that warning look and even the boss slinks away sheepishly.  Ah, the power of The Look.  No Doc... No meds...Less stress.  Life/Death will be a surprise, won't it, but at least I won't have this stress.
 So here's where I stand I'm on a Calcium Channel Blocker for angina.  I'm still having chest pain, but now I'm positive this is just stress, and not my heart.  I want off the meds.  I don't want to see the Doc (ever again, if that can be arranged through means other than dying).  I don't know how to get off the meds, and I have an appointment with the cardiodude in a week.  Here's where I'm pigheaded... I want to wean myself off the meds, cancel my appointment with the cardiodude and take my chances that everything will settle down and go away.  (If you haven't figured it out, yet, I don't handle stress well.)  I can't seem to make the decision to cancel the appt. and wean myself off the meds because I know I'm pigheaded and am trying not to be.  
 Thanks for listening!   (Oh, and I think they need to add another topic to this list..."frustrated" or "exasperated" because I'm not really angry.)