My husband has anger problems, may some other kind of "disorders" but I don't know how to name it. He is a well educated person, professional, normal family, a father that was really hard in their education but good person. My husband doesn't accept disagreement. Whatever is in his mind is what matter. Some times he reacts very wise, but he has this kind of idea that things have to be perfect, or people should behave in an specific way. When we invite friends of my son to sleep over, I try to be very careful in who is coming because he can be very sensitive even if the kids don't say good night or thank you. Last thing he did was take my son in his neck because he wanted to study the way they do in school. He once kick me out our bed and hit me hard when our baby was born because I was sitting in the bed o hard in the middle of the night ( I was feeding the baby every three hours) since then we don't sleep together. Once we were traveling, he got mad and he let my older son, and me with the baby in the middle of the road, in a cafeteria when we stop to rest for short time. I notice he disappear without tell me anything. Later he came as if nothing happened, and denied what he did. He is always judging people, he does not have any friend. The only people he has is our family. At this point nobody visit us. Stories like this with him I have many, but essentially I'm worry because I don't know what to do. I asked him to go to counseling, and told him we all will go together. He doesn't not show any real interest on this. I'm the one that is pushing to go some place. He gets really mad for simple things. He also tells me that if we divorce he will take the baby with him because he makes more money that I do. I'm scare of him. of his reactions. I don't want to go with him any place because there is always some kind of situation that I try to avoid in front of the kids but I know is happening. Very confuse about all this. Is difficult to prove something because he is an intellectual and acts in front of people in different way...I also notice people don't like him. He can be very tender, offensive, and ver very authoritarian. 
Need advise on what to do.