I have some confusion about the following symptoms of BPD, and would appreciate all input. 
 It seems that most of the BPD symptoms I've struggled with arise only during romantic relationships. 
 For instance, I have immense jealousy problems-extreme enough that I would call them delusional. It has only been in romantic relationships that I seem to have inappropriate rage. (on account of the whole delusional jealousy) 
 But delusional Jealousy is definitely a part of Borderline, in fact I've never heard that it could be a symptom of anything else. 
 This is where I need some help, do many BPD folks feel they don't have many of the BPD symptoms until in a relationship?
 Unstable self image? 
 I have some strong opinions: pro choicer; atheist; I believe euthanasia and assisted suicide are humane and sometimes the only moral way to help someone these opinions and others do not change regardless of who I am with- on the other hand, I am prone to adopting other people's subtle quirks or mannerisms. 
 I behave differently around certain people: I censor myself around elderly people, whereas I can be quite crude and deliberately offensive around my younger peers. 
 It is said that people with BPD struggle with sexual orientation. I can't deny that I am sexually attracted to some women-it's biological, but I tend to date men as well, not that I have had a lot of partners either way. 
 Is this what is meant by unstable self image? Is it possible to have a strong sense of self in some ways but not necessarily others? 
 Chronic feelings of emptiness? This one confuses me too. I'm not sure what this means. I know what it's like to feel as though I haven't reached my goals and I feel very unsatisfied and unaccomplished, which I guess is similar to feeling empty. But it's not a chronic feeling. 
 Idolizing and Devaluing others: When I am very upset-in the heat of the moment- I will  think someone is a complete jerk, and I'll wonder why I liked them to begin with- as soon as I am calm, I realize that maybe they aren't a "complete" jerk and maybe I not exactly a saint, either. 
 Very soon after I calm down, I"ll realize that they're just as imperfect as I am-They are neither the scum of the earth nor the creme dele crame. 
 Is this the same for other people with BPD, or once BPD folks have devalued someone, do they find it difficult to realize that maybe the person isn't either a complete jerk or a complete saint? 
 Anyone with BPD, or any insight into this, I would sure welcome your input. 
If I'm struggling with BPD, I want to make sure I get treatment. But I think I struggle with the language they use in describing the symptoms. I need some expert insight. 
 There is so much hope for people with this disorder, and DBT should be taken by everyone, mental illness or not, it has a lot of value.