I'm dealing with my four year old son's father who will lie at the drop of a dime in order to get what he wants. He has spent years peppering my son with questions about me and my now husband. He told my son that my husband was a "bad guy" and that he was going to "take him to jail." (He's a police officer). There is no clear definitive reason why he should or would hate my husband the way he does. I'm so frustrated and am feeling like I myself am going to break down. My son was in my care (and husbands) since birth. His biological father had nothing to do with him, and one day when we went to court (when the baby was 1 1/2) years old) he and his highly paid attorney convinced the judge that it was a good idea to take the baby from me for 2 weeks at a time to visit with him 3 hours away at his home. Sadly the courts allowed it. This man has made sexual comments about 2 of my other children ( I reported it but no action was taken), he has been caught sleeping with my 4 yr old naked in the bed (and admitted it), has said bad things about me and my husband to my 4 yr old, and told me from day one that he would do what ever necessary (including lie) to get the baby away from me. He gets angry with my son if he tells him something good about my husband (he bought him a toy, read him a story, or played football with him, etc). He became angry with me when my son said that his uncle (dad's live-in brother) squeezed his privates - and I reported it. He became so angry he decided to say, "Well, he told me that your husband did it." So, I told him he should have reported it. Of course he was just lying, so he never did report anything. 
 This man is sick. It's as if he doesn't feel empathy. The only time he "feels" pain (emotional) is when someone stands up for themselves. If you don't do what he wants you to do, he WILL punish you. He has had protective orders granted against him due to his domestic violence against me and the family dog, and was fired from his police officer job for running my social security number thru VCIN to find info on me, 5 times in 2 months (and then lying about it).  Now, he has been re-hired as a police officer for a different jurisdiction. I know in my gut (although not a psychiatrist) that he has some serious issues. Can someone please help me? I'm at a disadvantage financially, but I still need to help my son. 
 Forgive me if my entry didn't flow smoothly. I'm very distraught about this situation and feel very helpless in regards to helping my little boy.
 Thank you
Diane