Hi! I am so sorry that you are going through this. I am not a teenager anymore but I am not that far behind either. People do not understand just how hard it is to be a teen and how difficult high school can be. It not only relates to school work, its about looks, status and others "in charge" believe they have the right to tell you "where you belong" and just about everything else. In high school I was a loner. I always just seemed awkward and shy. I had friends but I still managed to be alone most of the time. I was sad more than often and eventually all my friends deserted me. Not only did they desert me, but they teased and bashed me as well. I was called names, my personal business was spread throughout the school, I had paper being thrown at my head, others laughing at me etc it was hell!!!!! I spent night and day crying my eyes out and praying for a release from this life. I started to cut myself as well and I felt ugly. I did not understand why I could not be one of those beautiful, smiling people with the amazing best friends and wonderful boyfriend (I had a boyfriend but he was a douche bag, this made my situation worse.)
 Now I am an adult. I have a child, a job and I attend college. However, most of my high school worries, cares, fears and disturbances has followed me into my adult life. And so as an adult I will still have moments of feeling "ugly", "hated" etc and I have cut. I am now in the process of dealing with things and not taking the bad feelings and self hate a step further. You are still young and so I urge you to nip it in the bud and not allow your depression to take over your entire life. It doesn't have to be taking large steps, you can go in strides. So it is not to say that you would walk up to a group of girls and try talking them. Wolves travel in packs....seriously. Even if one girl wants to speak with you and be nice to you, she too is worried about what her friends will say and think of her and noone wants be a social outcast so the claws come out. Seek out a loner such as yourself or a small group of three of even two girls. Just sit with them and try to make little conversations.
 Do you have clubs at your school? Part of the reason I was such a loner was because I never interacted much. Joining a club or a team, can create an atmosphere of interest and similarities with other students. What are you good at? Go with that. If someone takes your seat, find a new one. Its a free school, sit wherever you wish. And do not allow others to tell you about you. And do not let them influence or change your thinking about yourself. So if someone calls you ugly, fat, disgusting etc, does it have to mean that you are? so why should you listen? Also, change your own views of yourself (if they are bad). If you think ill of yourself, what do you expect others to think? If people who do not know, do not like you for no reason, why should you be worried about it? How does it affect you? They have no clue who you are, what you do or what you want? So why does their opinions of you matter?
"Change the voices....in your head...make them LIKE YOU instead." Pink - F***ing perfect.
 Quit taking seats in corners and hiding behind crowds. That is grounds for you to be pushed around, if you portray yourself as being weak, others are going to treat you as such. And if you deem yourself as inferior, you make it easy for them. Take care wonderful people and remember that you are beautiful in every way, shape or form. Teenagers are people too, start acting like it.
 Feel free to inbox me. I am here to listen.
 Anna