I feel really silly writing this here, but my pediatrician refuses to examine my daughter and insists instead on referring her to a specialist without even looking at her. perhaps this is normal, but it is rather frustrating to me. The disfunction at my in-laws seems to have spilled over into my life and i'm unsure if due the the information that's come out i'm just hyper paranoid or not but here's the back story:
 My mother in law adopted 4 children in addition to her 2 biological. the 4 adopted are 15(F), 14(F), 13(M), 6(M). It recently came out that the 15 yr old had been sexually abusing the 6 year old possibly for 3 years. the 6 year old has been in and out of mental hospitals and the 15 year old (who adamantly denies that is was her though according to my MIL the 6 year old named the 15 yr old) has been removed from the home and placed in a group home 2 hours away. The two middle children spent most of their time with me and my husband (who is much older than the adopted children). I beleive that because they spent so much time with us they were spared the abuse and I contributed my influence on them to be what helped them be "normal".
Here's my problem:
The other night the 13 yr old helped me out by putting my 3 year old daughter in the tub. when she came out she said to me, "so and so poked my peepee!". I was shocked. My daughter seemed more annoyed and indignant than upset or "damadged" but I was shaken. When all this first came out my Husband and I had a talk with our daughter who was 2 then that NO ONE but the Doctor or mommy when helping her go potty touches her "pee-pee".  Did we perhaps make her too sensitive to that? should I worry? My daughter was throwing matchbox cars out of the tub at the 13 yr old and he was throwing them back, could he have accidentally hit her privates with a car? 
Any help would be much appreciated. at this point i'm just not sure what to do, whether i'm freaking out for no reason or if I should be concerned...
thanks so much!