Hello i was reading some of the post they kinda helped me out.. for about 7 years now this has been happening usually during the day from 10am to 6pm I well get extremely dizzy confused and cant even screw in a lightbulb so dizzy, if i dont sit down or lay down i pass out, sometimes it gets so bad my vision moves like side to side really quick i get sick to stomach I always thought i was HypoGlycimic (Diabetic) low blood sugar. but i have got my blood tested i got put on a sick leave because i passed out at work. so now i have gotten blood checked/b12/echo/48 heart monitor and an eeg i think it was called it was a test for epileptic. (siezures) and there all coming back fine i just want to go back to work like im living on nothing right now so im really in a jam not being able to work and they suspended my licence as well so im pretty screwed i tried to tell them i think it's just stress at the time when i passed out i just lost my baby that day so i was pretty stressed out and it was my birthday to make things worse. so it's been like 2 months and they haven't figured nothing out. i find that when im getting really dizzy i feel so weak it's been happening for years now so im pretty good and hiding it.but it's getting worse like a shake pretty bad my legs feel like there going to give out i just dont know what to do anymore i ate fine im not eating fine now because of my situation just saying i was eating fine do you think this could be anxiety attacks it never ever happens later in the day like when it happens i usually go lay down if im home or sit down but usually fall asleep cus i feel so weak and dont want to move when it's happening after i wake hours after im fine for the rest of the day i have bad sleeping i never know when i well fall asleep meaning usually 3am-7am even if i work at 7am im lucky to fall asleep for 4am and there hasn't been a sleeping pill that works for me. can someone pls help me i just want my life back i wanna get back working. sry for the long post..hope someone can help. thanks.