I've been married 12 years and have 2 kids.  Our marriage has never been one of great passion.  Mostly friendship and support with benefits.  About 5 years ago, my husband lost his job, just after our second child was born.  He was able to find work not long after but ever since then he has been let go of 3 jobs.  He always finds something else fairly quickly and has always been able to support our family.  A few years back, while unemployed, he partnered up with another guy to start a sports company.  Since then, he has been obsessed with being a sports agent and has sunk around 20K in various ventures that never seem to work out.  He even went as far as cosigning a car loan with a player just to keep him on the team.  That went bad and the car was repossessed, etc.  He never told me he did this until we went to buy a house in a new area to be closer to a new job of his and we were denied for the loan.  He blames me, saying that if I would have supported him more then maybe these businesses would have been a success.  Our relationship has suffered more and more and for the last year, we have been practically roommates.  He complains that our sex life is practically nonexistant but how am I supposed to feel romantic when I barely see him an hour a day and he doesn't participate in my life anymore.  A month ago he said he's not sure he wants to be in this relationship anymore and I was taken by surprise.  So I tried to talk to him about it and he really just avoided the conversation.  I asked flat out several times what he wanted to happen and he just said he didn't know.  I told him I would like to work on the relationship and he said he didn't know if he did.  Later he said he wanted to just live as friends with kids for a while to see what we have left between us.  Now a few weeks later, he comes home from work about the time we go to bed and leaves before we get up.  But he still won't talk to me about what should happen.  I'm stuck in a holding pattern and I'm sick of it.  I don't know if I want to divorce or if I want to try, but right now I'm being completely stonewalled.  What do I do?