Here are the most bizarre symptoms military doctors over 16 years as well as many, many civilian doctors are baffled over.......I am going to give everything as to not leave anything out.  I do not mind if you need to consult with a team as the answer really needs to be found and soon before yet another symptom shows its head which may not be good for me.  1. I was raped from 3 to 11 yrs of age.       2. Bell's palsy 3 times starting at age 13, Age 19-20 (right before getting pregnant )  Age 27,  ........3.  One birth, one pregnancy to term he is 22 now.   4.  Low blood pressure after giving birth but steadily getting lower,  5. Full hysterectomy at age 28, went on HRT Premarin for 8.5-9 years....6. Smoked Cigarettes 3-5 a day for 6-7 years,  now 1-3 a day maybe twice a week, some weeks none.     7. Have passed out with concussions over four-five times in past three years......8. Have osteoporosis per Bone Density Scan.....9. MRI six months ago showed three dots that doctors said two were of no concern, however one needed to be watched.......10. Sitting blood pressure is 95/55, laying down is 90/45-50,  standing can go as low as 89/45. ......11. I am 43 yrs old, Caucasion 5'5 weighing 105-110 pounds.......12. A year ago diagnosed with a hernia at the bottom of esophagus that now they want to operate and lift my stomach around esaphagus and secure with a band.   13. Was on 2mg Klonzapam for Anxiety for  six years and stopped cold turkey four months ago with very little if any withdrawal symptoms    14.  Last two months have not left house due to fatigue. 15. Insomnia. 16. Hot Flashes so hard that my heart feels heavy,  drenching clothing eight plus times a day, four to five during the night ( my husband thinks I am trying to make snow in the home). 17. Sore neck, joints, bones.  18.  Swollen abdomin, eating anymore than two cups of food is painful.   19. Headaches that feel like a brain freeze on back of top skull, temple, right above ears, I grab my head with my hands then it passes after two to four minutes and I have to go lay down for a minimum of two hours.  20. Dizziness that happens after being up out of bed after an hour, sometimes less.  21. Memory problems i.e. Confusion, lose a couple of days at a time  22. Chest pains go from slight to none in the AM to  medium to hard afternoon through every hot flash through the evening into 3 am. Feels like I can here my heart beat as the pain recently progressed into feeling like every time my heart beats feels like stabbing through my upper right shoulder until the hot flash subsides also if I raise my voice or even get the slightest bit.  23. Unable to read for longer than two lines before everything goes blurry,  I do not qualify as needing glasses.  24.  Laying flat is extremely dizzy as well as left ear not hearing as well as right ear can. 25.  Ringing in ears is insanely bothersome as it never stops. Please let me know what you may think and which hospital on East Coast that may be able to help me, or even the military hospital in Portsmouth Virginia where we are stationed.  Thank you for reading.