OK - about two months ago I was diagnosed with Thyroid cancer after a lump showed up in my thyroid overnight.  I am paranoid and I know it.  I had a 6 cm lipoma removed off my torso (over the ribs) just below my right breast two weeks later - benign.  Then I had a mas (about 1 cm) show up in my arm.  The MRI thinks it might be a lipoma but it was somewhat inconclusive.  It did have a fat center.  Then last night, after dinner, I ate a little much and was rubbing my stomach area when I felt something else.  
 About 2 inches below the sternum I felt a little pebble.  You can't see it by looking at it, and I am heavier (5 feet tall and 190 pounds), but it was like a 2mm size rock.  It does hurt when I push on it, but it normally just doesn't hurt on its own.  I am flipping out again.  The lipoma on my torso was right under the skin, and soft to the touch.  The lump in my arm is deeper down in the arm, but is softer to the touch - this one does get tender if I push on it.  What I feel in the fatty layer in my abdomen is like a little rock.  It is very small and now I have to kind of search to find it.  It almost feels like it is floating around in the fatty area.  It doesn't feel fixed, so when I push on it the little thing feels to move around a little bit.  I am just so paranoid that this is some rare form of sarcoma in my fatty tissue in the abdomen.  My poor husband said, "Look , it is probably another lipoma.  You can't be running to the doctor for every bump you feel.  You are getting older and these things are going to happen."  
 Again - feels like it is in the fatty tissue.  Doesn't hurt unless I  poke at it.  It isn't fixed, it moves around when touched.  Feels like a 2mm size pebble floating around in there.  I am just worried because the lipoma on my torso and the mass in my arm are both soft and squishy.  This thing in my abdomen is like a little tiny rock.  
 Looking for any suggestions besides cancer as to what this could be.
 I want to run to the doctor today - but if we have to start doing more MRI's and ultrasounds now it will really complicate our lives.  We were both offered jobs back in our home state (and we really want to move home!) but my husband said, "If you pursue this right now we have to decline those job offers.  Those jobs won't wait another 6 weeks for us to find out what this is (and that seems to be how long it takes to get an MRI/CT scan/or Ultrasound down here - had to have an MRI of my neck and it was ordered the end of December yet I just had it done March 14th because that was the earliest they could get me in!)
 Is this something I should just watch and if it changes go in and see, or is this something that will kill me in the next 6 weeks - which is how long it will take to move home, get our new insurance active at my husband's new job, and get in to see a doctor.  I am just terrified.  I am 41 years old, have four children ranging from 9 to 15 years of age and I don't want to die. . . The thyroid cancer we found ended up being the easier to treat form of thyroid cancer - so I know I am lucky there - but I am just anxious and scared that my body is full of cancer!