I am tired of abusing my parents. I view myself as pathetic. I am 21 years old yet our relationship is like I am a controlling temperamental five year old. 
I just recently looked up the symptoms for BPD. I was diagnosed YEARS ago, but never thought it was important as the other mental illnesses I have so i avoided learning about it. I was amazed when i found all the symptoms match me perfectly. So maybe there is something to this diagnosis. I hate diagnosis' but this matches my personality too creepily.
It still confuses me though. 
 There is no way to change my morals and views on matters in life. Sure I can try and see the other person's view, but i cannot change my own.
It's getting worse. It was bad when i was younger, but it seemed to dissapear for awhile - until my parents decided to sell the farm, buy a new house, and even buy me my own house to rent from them ( i should be grateful) but ... it does nothing but bring problems in my mind. 
i learned anger management skills. I no longer try and murder them, instead i emotionally abuse them - which i dont understand because i desperately love them. they are afraid of me, so they give me anything i want, afraid of the outcome of my disappointment.  
 the only important moral i have in life, is Loyalty. I will stick by my family no matter what. The bad side of that is... i view every little thing they do as Betrayal. 
I used to view myself as just having bad abandonment issues.
I can't change it, so what do i do? There is no way i can change that moral. It will always be with me, its engrained into my brain.  
 Also... i have a symptom that does not seem to match borderline personality disorder at all. 
I have a general hatred for people. A general lack of morals. Like I have no sense of what is right and wrong. I find murderers innocent. i am friends with many (a very weird thing to admit on here i know) but i dont see anything wrong with it, its just a major example to why i am worried about these things in myself. 
On the other side i do have my own morals, they just dont match society. There are reasons that i am okay with hatred and killing i suppose. 
But what it comes down to... is my relationships are iffy. I either hate or love the person. If i dont know the person, i will be okay with sadistically hurting them, and have even been locked up for murder attempts.
when i do like someone, i have gang mentality, extreme loyalty, i would do anything for them. but it takes the smallest thing for me to develop grudges for eternity.  
I am almost certain these general desire for murder and using, abusing people do NOT match borderline, and if they do i give everyone else a bad name. 
 I am very sorry if I offend anyone on here, but i need help trying to sort out all of these things before i can learn how to get rid of them. 
 the thing that weirds me out is that although i have a hatred for strangers, when there is an emergency i jump into "saving mode". It is a natural response in me that i step up to lead and help people when they are in need of physical or mental help. i was also told i am supposed to be a healer once i heal myself. very strange. if my life journey is to become a healer, then why do i hate people so much?
i know at times i care too much, and maybe that is what has stopped me from caring. i dont know. 
 I despise communicating. But i come off as charismatic. I usually have to act. 
My social phobia is intense. On one side i am fearful of people. On the other side i transform into a strange overly confident, egotistical, obscene person who talks too much.
Sometimes i become a different person all together, like mild split personality. Back in the day my sense of identity was so bad i truly thought i was Mistic Lee Jones, werewolf hunter, horrible hallucinations and delusions. 
Recently i keep becoming Dean Winchester from Supernatural. I watch any type of show or play any video game for too long... i actually adopt those characters personalities and forget reality. I start talking in different accents too. But my life sux right now, so the urge to become someone else is very strong... i hate reality. its so easy to escape for me. 
 I know BPD does NOT sum up ALL of my mental illnesses (i have a wide list) but the personality disorders... i am sure i have symptoms of most of them. BPD i have all of them. I don't know what to do. My therapist makes it sound so easy with his stupid charts. 
But it's not. When it comes down to it... i can't deal with my mind. I don't know how to change it. 
 I KNOW i am a burden to my family. I also know thats a symptom of BPD. But I KNOW most people would have abandoned me by now. And I KNOW they adopted me and im not from their bloodline. I know they love me, because if not they would have given up a long time ago. 
They can tell me they love me, but they also always tell me they hate the mental illness in me. Well WAKE UP CALL that mental illness IS ME. I know it's horrible to say, but people have to realise i will always have mental illness. That's why i save other people from me. I don't have any other relationships other than my family. 
Sometimes, the things i talk about depress them. They don't always want to be with me, they get exhausted of always being brought down by my depression, by all the things i cant do. I'm like a retard. they cant always be there teaching me basic life skills. 
it makes me sad. i was doing so good, and they get so HAPPY when they dont have to be around me. they are happy when i am independent, and my mom always avoids the times when i relapse. she has betrayed me multiple times for stupid reasons like "hanging out with her friends" when i was struggling. i dont care if they avoid me during times when i am not struggling, but the times when i am is the times i need someone there i trust to help me from losing touch of reality. 
 i try to get through it myself to not burden them, but i dont know how to cope on my own. there is no such thing as a worker who can come anytime of the day or night during crisis times. and it just so happens my crisis times are alot more frequent in the present. i dont know what im going to do. i need more help than what i am recieving. i know i cant rely on my parents for therapy... it just ruins our relationship even more.
 im sorry this is so long... i guess i just needed to let it all out. i have no idea what step to take next or anything.