I just turned 16. Last year, August 23 2015,I was going to commit suicide when my sister found out she left Mississippi to come get me in Louisiana and i moved in with her.. my mother verbally abuses me and we argue every time we talk,unless im spending my money to get her high. After i moved in with my sister she(mother) still screamed at me and still made me feel worthless.. Since last year i have moved in and out 7 times, from constantly arguing with both of them, i even went to the 'extreme' and ran away for a month to Utah with my friend... I also have an 18 yr.old sister that makes my life hell by telling my bf im cheating on him(LIES) and he should go get checked for STD's (he did, hes clean) she told everyone i had chlamydia and she was starting drama with his family and I. I just come back to Mississippi from Utah, I live with my 21 year old sister but my mom (and younger 2 siblings) wants to move in with us theyre planning on doing it tomorrow, i dont want to live with anyone in my family i hate all of them.... but im only 16 and cant legally leave without being called a runaway and i cant have anybody put in jail because i wanted to live with them instead of my family. I have no money, no vehicle, and i havent completed 9th grade i had to quit last year because my sister didnt have actual custody and Mississippi is a whole lot different than louisiana. Im not sure what to do. Im scared to call the cops what if they say they dont see anything that corroborates with my story and then i get physically abused by my mother and 18 yr. Old sister (my mom says they can hit on me).. I dont want to leave from the coast because my boyfriend and I see a future with each other. Im hanging in there for him, i would much rather just live with him again (my mom couldnt pay the bills) but nobodys gonna give me permission to do it and i dont want them put in jail.. is there anyway anybody could help me? Im not sure if i can even get help.. any help is appreciated thank you.