I'm interested in anyone's views, experiences or insights to this twisted way in which I was a suppressed BPD sufferer without knowing it as a child- but I was on the receiving end of my Mother's suffering which as we all know it can be very hard for the close ones of someone who is BPD. Because of this my hypersensitivity from my disorder gets all the more too overwhelming daily and I have been diagnosed as having a mood disorder from this which is what impairs me from being able to get on with my life, my day to day living is always disrupted by my mood fluctuations. In my opinion I'm glad that I experienced being on the receiving end from a BPD sufferer, as I know first hand how horrible it is to go through that with a loved one. But at the same time I have these impulses in me which cannot be controlled without intense despair so it's like I'm a victim trapped between the me who was a victim in the past under the thumb of my BPD mother ..... and the me who is no longer under her control and suffering from BPD myself, always trying to be careful how I affect other people through my illness...I tend to overcompensate and that makes me very vulnerable as I easily always blame myself for something that may happen interpersonally when actually sometimes I'm certain it must be through the fault of the other person, but because I'm so sensitive to the horrible memories of being on the receiving end of a BPD sufferer that experience makes me all to empathetic with the person on the receiving end of my BPD despair so yeah it's like a vicious circle. Sometimes I wish I could be like my mother and just not see the other side....just truly believe 'my way is the reality'....but that would be bad, for others so I'm glad that I'm not, but it seems I'll forever be neglecting myself by always bringing the blame back on myself for being this way. It's like every day ever second I'm trying to balance myself and my thinking. Tight rope walking is my life, I always have the feeling I'm going to fall, no matter how skilled I get at adjusting my balance.....can anyone understand my position, and can I show anyone else empathy for their similar position. Any advice would be appreciated. Please post any links to studies of bpd sufferers under domination from other bpd sufferer (like parental figure) and the implications this can have on someone.