Hi, my name is Julie and i have been coming on this web-site for two years, due to suffering severe anxiety and panic attacks.  Over these two years i have been researching extensively about the issues that can cause anxiety both mentally and physically.  Upon my search i found one or two things that i was totally unaware of that can cause anxiety within a person, of which even the everyday doctor will not normally embark upon.  I will now share the information i have found with you so that you too can be informed and strengthen your knowledge and power to take positive action to find a release from this illness.
 The first thing i came across was a condition called 'Pyroluria'.  This is a condition that affects the blood. The blood produces a by-product called Krytopyrroles, which is normally just flushed out of the system via the kidneys and digestion.  In pyroluria, the krytopyrroles multiply too fast and bind to vitamin B6 and Zinc, which is then flushed out of the system.  As a result B6 and Zinc is not absorbed by the body and can become severely low.  This mal-absorption is what can cause the symptoms of mental health illness, which can range from anxiety disorders right through to full blown psychosis such as paranoid schizophrenia.  Fortunately the testing and treatment is simple with this illness and requires a non-invasive urine test to diagnose and high doses of Vitamin B6 and Zinc to replenish the deficiency.  There is also a blood test which can tell you how low your stores of B6 and Zinc are, which in my opinion is safer than just having the Urine test as you obtain a more accurate measure of the amount of B6 and Zinc your body needs to feel better. This illness is Genetic and therefore life long, but this is a major advantage because siblings or off spring can be tested if they develop mental health disorders, which could seriously change their path and bring wellness.
  Now please do not start taking high doses of B6 and Zinc without first getting the test done as Zinc in high doses can be toxic to the body, so you need to make sure and either confirm or rule out this condition first.  This test is not a normal test that the GP's do, as i found out myself, so i had this test performed by a Nutritionist, which did come back Positive with very low levels of B6 and Zinc, so after 18 long years of suffer from anxiety disorders, i have a glimmer of hope and wellness.  Plus since starting the treatment regime my body is beginning to feel stronger and more able to cope. 
 The second thing i found during my research which some people may not be aware of and can affect the body quite severely is Candida.  Candida is natural yeast that is found within everyone’s intestines but with the freeness of antibiotics that are prescribed and high sugar, high yeast diets us westerners have become accustomed to, the Candida yeast is able to run a riot in out intestines and cause a multitude of problems and symptoms. These symptoms can present themselves from allergies to food intolerances right through to severe anxiety, depression, mood disorders and sugar imbalances and cravings.  A simple free test can be done to find out if you may be suffering from a Candida overgrowth is a little saliva test that can be done using a clear glass filled with water.
 First thing in the morning before brushing your teeth build up some saliva in the mouth and spit it into the glass filled with water.  Leave it for half an hour and then have a look to see what is produced after this time.  The glass should be clear, if it is cloudy, has small string like tentacles hanging down from the surface of the water or has little cloudy granules in the water you may well indeed have an overgrowth of Candida.  To get this confirmed normally a stool sample is required which can also look for parasites, leaky gut and other fungal infections that may be making your symptoms worse.  
There is a Candida diet that people can use, plus anti-fungal remedies such as garlic which will help to keep the Candida in check.  Just so you know Garlic is amazing!!!! It has strong anti-bacterial, anti-fungal and anti-viral properties that can keep you well.  It is known to lower cholesterol and blood-pressure.  So is really worth while looking into and researching.
I will leave it as this for the moment and see what kind of response this gets.  If it is a positive one I will let you know of the other conditions I found out about.  I personally would do your own little research on the two conditions if you found them of interest.  Google and have a look.
All the best and I hope that this will be of help to someone, if it helps just one person get well then it would have been worth its weight in Gold!!!
God-bless
Juliexxx