Hello, just a few months I got engaged. My fiance is 32 years old and I am 25. He's a very good person and I love him with all my heart. 
He has always had a bad tempered and it was ok for me, I accepted it because I was able to forget about it and I got so used to it I started caring less and less, besides, his "anger" was not directed to me, it was directed to the bad driver, to the rude waiter or who ever, still it bothered me, but the moment passed and I could move on.
 However, lately his getting upset and very very angry for any stupid thing that happens, and it's anger goes straight to me, which affects me a lot and makes me feel like he hated me. It's weird because after a few minutes or hours depending on how bad it was he starts acting like nothing had happened and tries to avoid the subject at all costs because he knows I'm  going to tell him how mad I am at him and how his reactions are exagerated.
 Anyway, I don't know what to do, I hate (HATE) being yelled at, and sometimes I think I am with a crazy person!! Because I cannot believe that because I ask a question or say something that for him is stupid a person (that loves me) can react in that way... You may think I´m over reacting or that I might be an annoying person, but I am not.
 A few weeks ago I had a problem with my mobile and we were going to meet for lunch and apparently calls were not coming through, once I fixed it I tried to call him back but he was with another call, finally he calls again, and he sounded so upset, so I told him in a very nice way: hey, once I realized the phone was dead I tried calling you back and you were on the phone and you don't see me trying to fight with you... please, do not get mad for things I do not control... and he said, very loud, screaming like if I had insulted him in the worse way: DON'T YOU UNDERSTAND??!!! I DON'T CARE IF YOUR PHONE DOES NOT WORK BUT DON'T BLAME ON ME FOR BEING BUSY???? -- And I was like what??? Are you serious, that's not what I've said... I'm just saying, do not get angry if I do not answer the phone or of it dies and then he starts yelling even more!!!
 He arrived home and tried to act as nothing had happened but I was very upset until we finally talked.
 Then yesterday I asked him if he remembered that application for music trackin and he said he didn't and in the taxi on the way to my house he started looking, so when he finally downloaded it he said, let's try it... I was excited to see if it worked and I told him, ok, let me choose a difficult song... and then again he got all angry and said in an awful way: BUT WHY DO YOU HAVE TO PICK A DIFFICULT ONE!!! JUST TRY ANYONE OR DON'T SAY ANYTHING!!!! .... I got upset and after a few minutes he askes me in a nice way what's wrong, and I start saying I don't understand why he's got that behaviour sometimes, and he gets all angry again.
 Frankly I don't know what to do... can I help him??? I won't stop being me and the truth is, he makes me feel as he was annoyed by me. We are getting married in a year but I don't want traumatized kids due to his behaviour.
 You probably can't tell now, but I love him, it's just that I feel dissapointed.