I don't even know how this would be possible but I'm concerned enough to ask...
In March this year a man whom I had been having a 'flirtationship' with left his girlfriend to be with me. She was unaware that I was the reason he left. 
One month later she told him she was 8 weeks pregnant. She however wouldn't allow him to attend her doctors appointments, had been on the implant, and none of her friends knew. She told him she didn't want to be a single mother so would get rid of the apparent child if he wasn't with her. Without blabbering on about my devastating heartbreak it culminated with him going back to her after she showed him her 12 week scan and effectively proved it. (He and I work together btw)
Although there was a part of me that was suspicious, this was shot to **** when I ended up in a 4 hour conversation with her around about her 21st week and she was visibly pregnant. She was HUGE. Visually I'd have put her at the 7 month mark. She tells me her due date is November 11th. 
This conversation involved me telling her everything that had happened between her man and I during their split. To my face her forgiveness of him was instant.
 At this point I pretty much accepted that they were having a child together.
 But then things started to just not add up...
This girl is 19. Very close with her mother, and a extreme control freak. She used to give her boyfriend a curfew, forbid him to drink (he's 27). Didn't permit female friends, controlled his phone, e-mail, FB, money etc. They spent all their time arguing - ergo his eventual leaving.
 Firstly I find out that her best friend was pregnant the same amount of weeks at the same time. Then, that she's been doing photographic manipulation at college. Then, he tells me at work, after I've seen her massive bump that her mother doesn't know - whom she was living with! (The excuse was baggy clothes)
A few weeks later I find out through him that the baby has lung development problems - but I note she's still smoking.
A few weeks later (her 32nd week) my friend sees her. When I ask if she's now enormous the reply is "What, is she pregnant? She didn't look it"
A week later she decides to move away across the country to start uni. Seven months gone, away from family, friends and daddy-to-be. The uni doesn't provide child care until the baby is 3 months old so I can't fathom what her plan was.
At work he is asked by another colleague what her due date is. He doesn't know. Why? Because she won't tell him until she is sure. He comes back the next day and informs us that they're due on November 15th.
After that - her 37th week - my mother sees them both out shopping. She comes back to me and says "she's not even showing". I ask him about it, his response is "she was carrying too much water" riiight, ok. "Did you go to the doctors with her?" "No, she forgot to tell me when the appointment was"
Then...when she's 39 weeks (last week) I hear that she's still working a full time job in a fast food place. 
 Of course the further along this went the more baffling it became. On one hand she looked pregnant when I saw her, and who on earth fakes it THAT far. At some point you're going to have to produce a baby. I was expecting a 'miscarriage' but when that never happened I figure there is a child on the way and I better get used to it.
On the other hand it's the most suspicious pregnancy I've came across outside of a soap opera.
 Next. We're 13 days away from her due date (the second one, not the first one) He's been down to see her as he does on his days off and just gotten back the previous night. 6pm she sends him a TEXT(!) him to tell him that she has given birth and the child didn't survive. Due to it's heart problems (thought it was lung?) their daughter had died minutes after birth. He is devastated. 6'3" worth of long haired rocker breaks down crying at work. It was awful to see, he just held on to me shaking. So he drives the hour and a bit trip to get to her but she's already out of the hospital and back at home - not with her family - in her uni accommodation. I don't know what happened over the next 4 days but I saw him today. He told me she'd been crying a lot but had gone back to work the day before and their had to be a post mortem. 
I had about a thousand questions I wanted to ask him but I'm exercising sensitivity.
 I can't say anything to him. I'm sure I'm missing a lot of information, and that chance I'm wrong...and this horrible thing has actually happened to them prevents these suspicions from being aired. As for how he could possibly not know...all I can come up with is that they have not been together as a couple since I told her about us.
 Thoughts... is it even possible for someone to go that far? How? What? Why? Huh...?