I've been going through this same thing with 17 yr old stepdaughter.  She lives with us.  Her and I are very close.  I love her.  Everyone screaming jealousy when a woman makes this observation needs to understand, it's not that.  Perhaps sometimes, but not every time.  Neither is it incestuous. But it IS a behavior problem.  My stepdaughter spooning/snuggling her dad, stroking his arms/hair, lip kisses, a need to know where he is always, talking in a baby voice to him.  It's NOT healthy.  And for anyone that thinks this behavior curbs reckless sexual behavior- it doesn't.  She is very sexual.  She thinks it's funny to touch guys at school near their crotch and watch them get erections.  She does that in the same stroking manners she uses on her father. She has a boyfriend she has sex with. She is always talking about inappropriate things in front of her father like tender nipples, or difficulty getting a tampon in as she is so "tight".  For the women claiming jealous- do you find that appropriate conversation with a father? I would think not. 
Of course bringing these issues up has caused great turmoil in my relationship. He says they don't think like that.  Always believing in her innocence.  
She is not affectionate like this with her bio mother.  She has to force her daughter to hug her.  Her mother is wonderful and loving, and wants nothing more in the world than a close relationship with her daughter. So rule out unhealthy female relationships- that's not it. 
My SD is a senior this year and is pretty helpless.  She seems to think she will always be taken care of.  By men.  I have a theory that herein lies the problem. I wonder if because she has always seen her father as such a good caretaker, that she tried to emulate the relationship he once had with her mother and now with me? Like, if she behaves intimately with him, he will care for her like a wife. Emotionally and financially.  I've seen a lot about these "too close" father/daughter relationships that go on into adulthood, with the daughters rarely being independent, well adjusted women.  
With my theory, this is an unhealthy behavior that should be stopped.  Parents and children can be very close without it having to be physical.  My 16 year old son and I have a great relationship. We don't pet and touch all over each other. He's very hardworking and independent.  She is lazy and selfish.  Once again, here is the problem. Not the touching, but the motive as well as the result.  
For the women on here having this issue with 10-12 year olds- great! They are at a perfect age to start curbing these behaviors and teaching them independence. But your husband must be on board.  Mine, thankfully, now is.  And it's working! 
Don't be resentful to the child or husband if you can help it.  Try to make them understand the outcome you are striving to achieve- a healthy, confident, independent adult.  Leave the "incest" word out of it.
Thoughts?