It was a year and half since my husband of 30 years left me for the 22 yr old bimbo next door, feel free to read my story. I have done a lot of study on Midlife crisis in men (not saying I am an expert), all the information is the same. Was there a trigger that set him off, maybe a death or lost a job or simply he just got old. Almost over night he changed, he became all about me time, he was in the right and the wife was doing everything wrong. Data shows that in most cases they turn hate on the person they love most. Data also shows that, the better your marriage was the worse Midlife crisis will be. My ex totally destroyed his life, he took all our future income and spent it on smoking, drinking and women. He had no responsibility for his children as he believed he had done enough thinking and do things with the kids. 
 He let himself slip into this negative world of booze and partying. The best advice I ever received was on here, and that is to stop all contact if you can. You can not see him or talk to him, for you will be the only one hurt. I did not see and talk to my ex for 8 months and it gave me time to heal and gather my strength. He has spent all our savings, lost him home and is in terrible debt and of course he wants to come home. 
 You have look at  it this way, he leaves and goes an has lots of fun, has affair with women of no value (opposite to his wife) and buys new cars and clothes, anything to make him feel young and worth it. While he is going through all that, you have hit rock bottom, you are confused, you are very sad, you are angry, but over time you gain strength and start to put your life together. Due to my ex having sex with the bimbo next door in our little country town, the kids and I had to move out, which was really hard, no money, no home and my husband was having the time of his life.
 Over time you will put your finances in order, you and your kids will become very very close, which will fill your heart with love. I saved and saved and bought us a small home and now we have a new life, new home, still have a lot of debt but that is being paid off. You have to believe in yourself, I had the word believe tattooed on my arm and every time I felt sad I would look at my arm, that gave me the strength I needed. I am not saying go out and get a tattoo, find the thing that gives you strength and lean on it.
 Last and not lest, the men, the money is gone so are the women are gone, the kids have no time for him, he doesn't have a family and everyday he goes home to a empty home, which is cold and empty. Then regret sets in and he starts to remember the wonderful, strong and supportive wife you were and then and only then will be the time when he will want to come home. Unfortunately for him his wife has moved on and she is really enjoying her own company and has no room for him. Midlife crisis can destroy families, or the man can see himself changing and get help. There are many man out there who go through MLC and do not destroy their families. So if your husband is having a crisis then you have decide two things staying or going and that is a decision only you can make. This is a horrible time in your life, but please remember it is only a small time in your life, stand up and become strong for you and your family, because you do not deserve this pain. This crisis was his choice and his choice alone on how he dealt with it, you are not at fault. Good luck and ask yourself this question, will I be a victim or a survivor?