First of all i really don't know how to describe my wife situation in medical words whenever she gets stress follow up with anger. 
I will try to describe her actions as much as i can on how she gets stress with her weird reaction body.
 First i would like to introduce my self so you can help me out and identify the correct situation;
The scenario as this; I am a hot temper man, not easy to get me angry but only once i see something wrong happen from my Wife side, my voice will start raising up and put my anger on her, not physically but talking to her with anger, trying to fix her mistakes that she done, I do not do this extremely but this is my usual act as all my family knows about it as a (hot temper man). 
 Yesterday i was angry with my wife telling her what you have done is shouldn’t be done and that is wrong way to do it, I was angry verbally (Not harsh words at all) and my face was looking red color and my eyes like wants to come out of my face and that’s the usual anger of me.
 After what happen I kept saying to her you should learn from your mistakes, not to keep doing the same thing all over again and again for the rest of your life and without learning the right thing. She kept saying to me that this is the way she is slow in understanding me or understanding anything else and she can not take stress or become angry. She always keep saying this whenever she make a mistakes or have an arguments with each other and she don’t want to admit or say sorry to me, which is there should solve the problem with me if she said sorry and will not do it again. But my wife keep dragging me in the a conversation to increase my anger, and keep saying (she is slow in understanding since i was young and i can not take stress),
 After her level stress gets up from the argument, suddenly i see her start laughing loudly at me and shout out extremely and fall on the bed with tense hands and muscle like Paralysis and kept closing her mouth and kept crying and closing both eyes totally and make loud voice hooo hooo hooo hooo all the way and then start talking a words that i don’t understand what is it, while she is laying down on the bed i see all her body is tight and very strong i can not even open her hands (closing them tightly) or bring her legs up, she become very strong is like very tense and cramp and keep stressing on her self too much like she is pooling something out of her body.  She stays like that situation about 10 to 30 minutes. While she is in that situation i talk to her like this; please wake up, please look at your beautiful daughter is looking at you, please stop it, please i love you so much so stop it, please open your eyes,  all the way until she wake up from this situation. After she realize her self she tell me i have pain in my legs and cramps in my hands and stomach and all her face is turned to red color and both eyes turned totally to a red color (i can't even see a white color left in her eyes), after she wake up i asked her to take shower to relax her self, after that she just feel tired and want to sleep for a while, (as if she have done a huge work and she is highly needed for a rest) after she wake up i asked her why did you do like that and make every body in the house very tense and worry of your actions? She answer: what i have done? She denies that she wasn’t feeling anything of her action but she only feels all body pain surrounded her. She only can know that she was angry and that’s all about it. She doesn't know anything of her body reaction and the way she turned like to a different person. 
This happen to her whenever, she gets extreme anger or any high argument between us or others stressful situations. Something like 2 to 3 times a year can happen. 
 My wife is a stubborn woman, she only listen to her self most of the time, she only can learn once she fall but she don’t like to take advises from me to avoid things earlier stage problems can happen, but once she fall she will realize her self as a wrong and then admit to me that she is wrong and she should listen to me next time. Once her problem solved she forget about it and goes back again to the same attitude of her.
 I really confusing with her, i have one beautiful daughter from her, and right now she is pregnant 3 months. Please advise me what this situation call? How to deal with it? What should I do?
 Your advice and helps are extremely appreciated.
 Thank you!