It has been one month today, that my loving husband left. I feel horrible. We have been married for four years, which I thought was a happy marriage. We were planning soon to buy a house and have kids. 
The day he left we had a normal day, we both went to work, both came home, we usually sit on the couch together, close, cuddling, which we were, an argument started, and he left and never came back. I thought he left just to cool down after our argument, but then He sent the police to me and they told me, he won't be coming home, but he is not missing so don't file a missing person report. I knew we had some problems in the marriage, mostly me, being insecure, and that made me controlling at times. We talked about that though, and he told me all the time that he understands and he is happy with me. He didn't take any of his things with him, he quit his job, I have been trying to find him with his online banking but he hasn't done any transactions in a whole month and counting. I have been calling his family but they won't talk to me anymore. He sent me and my mom ( his mother in law) an email saying that he is so hurt, and I never trusted him, I controlled him all the time, and that he loves all of us so much and he is hurt so much but he said "I am done" I have sent him an email back saying that I am starting to see a therapist to help with my controlling ways and how to trust more to save our marriage, he hasn't written back yet. (One week) he also stated in the email he doesn't have internet. Other than this there as been no contact for one month. I feel so bad I didn't see how unhappy he was or how controlling I actually was. And I really am trying to change so we can be happy together. But I don't know if he is getting my emails, I don't know if he will care that I am getting help, I don't know where he is. Apparently he threw away his SIM card to his phone. Overall we had a happy marriage with some occasional fights that were usually my fault. I don't know what else to do, or how to contact him and let him know I don't want to give up on us. I really believe that if I put in the effort to make him happy and continue to talk to my therapist and get help we will be happy, I'm scared he has had enough. This is the first time we have ever been apart like this with no contact.