I'm 21 and being treated for depression.  I've had instances in the past of hearing things that weren't there (never talking TO me, and I always knew it wasn't real), but a psychiatrist told me that can be a symptom of severe depression.  Thankfully, she was right, as the symptoms went away once we got my depression more under control.  Another thing I've experienced, though, is it being "loud" in my head.  I tried explaining it to my current psychiatrist when I realized it (I wasn't aware of it until it was gone), but he had trouble understanding what I meant.
 It's as if there's background noise in my mind.  Sometimes it's the same effect as when you're at a restaurant and there are people talking - the noise of their conversations is there, but you're not focussed on that, and you don't hear what they're saying.  Other times, I'm actually aware of a few thoughts going on at one time, but only one of them is in my control.  Sometimes the other thoughts can be relevant to something in my life, but other times it can be random statements shooting through my head.  I imagine it's similar to what it would feel like to hear other people's thoughts - it's a phrase or ongoing stream and I can't always tell its context, and can't make it stop.
 Now, I'm not delusional - I don't actually think I'm hearing other people's thoughts, it's just the best way I could think to describe it.  I think the part that confused my doctor was that I'm not "hearing" voices.  It doesn't present as an external noise, but internal.  The way you hear yourself think, not the way you hear other people having a conversation.
 I was on a low dose of an anti-psychotic for the voices for a while, and this "noise" also went away.  I've been off that medication for a couple months now, and I'd been doing well - I haven't been hearing voices or anything, but I noticed the other day that this "noise" in my mind has been creeping back in.
 Does anyone understand what I'm talking about?  Has anyone else experienced this?  Do you think it's also just a symptom of the depression, or something more? (I'm depressed but it's still under control - nothing like the severity of it when I was hearing things.)  Can you think of a better way to describe it?  I'm going to talk to my psychiatrist about it next time I see him, since it's an issue again, but I was hoping someone might be able to help me understand in the meantime.
 Thanks!