I've been put on Celexa, been put on Zoloft. Ever think maybe there isn't anything wrong with my serotonin level?!
 For as long as I can remember I've been mentally distant. Since age 13 I've been a cutter. My father used to abuse me for as long as I can recall. It was usually for my bad school grades and getting in a lil trouble in elementary school. I backed off from cutting for a while during the age of  late 17 early 18, due to  joining the army. I've cut a few times while being at Fort Campbell. I cut heavily and emotionally when I was 18 in the month of March. My purpose was because I got raped by a fellow soldier. I was underage drinking and I lost it. I don't remember anything. I am currently 19 and in the middle of an investigation for it.
 I was recently honorably discharged from the United States Army under a chapter 5-13 personality disorder. The more I read into personality disordered I find I rapport more with Borderline. 
 What do you think?
 I feel as if I'm mentally not here. Like I'm disappearing as person. as me. I feel like I'm just in the background of my body and someone else is controlling my body. I want all of this to go away. I read and read and read about disassociation and depersonalization. I know I can't diagnose myself, but someone has to know what I feel. Go what I'm going through. I used to describe it as I'm sitting in a box and my connection to the world, life, is just a lil peep hole. Its like I have a metal fence between me and everyone. I can feel between the lil opening in the fence, but I can't fully grasp it. 
 I never feel hungry thou my stomach growls like crazy. more recently I've been having alot of pain in my head, sinuses. everyday now. It's making me sick.
 I've explained how feel to so many therapists, psychologists, and psychiatrists, and I can't think anymore. I don't know how to describe it anymore. I can't explain I how feel anymore. It's like b4 but now stronger. It's the metal fence + thick fog in front of me
 Someone help me!