when my son was 4 months old, i left his father. he abused me physically, emotionally and mentally. he also has a drug addiction. i know that when he was younger he was sexually molested and that he has NEVER talked to anyone about it. the only reason that he told me (briefly via email) is because i caught him talking on a male sex line. i know he has wierd sexually tendencies, such as talking on these sex lines, calling "special" massage therapist- both male and female. my son is now almost 14 months old. he stays with his father one night a week and every other weekend. i am scared that his father molests him. i do not have any proof. i have a very very strong gut feeling. i have had some signs that have lead me to believe this as well. such as there have been 2 incidents where i have found, as what seems to look like, pubic hairs on my sons butt. (i saved both them). my son always comes home with a diaper rash. sometimes it seems as if the sides of his diapers are stretched out, like taken off and put back on. i know this is not unusual, but sometimes my son flips out when i change him.   there have been times when he has slept to 930 in the morning when over his dads, he is always up at 730, is this because he wakes him up in the middle of the night? he crys at naptime when over his dads. i never have that problem with him. when time when i was at his fathers and i changed his diaper, it seemed as if the box for the wipes had vaseline on it? we do not use vaseline on him. i did once confront him and he told me that i was crazy and that he loves his son. but of course, what else would he say? yes i did it? 
    There are time when i think i am crazy for thinking this. but there are time when i am sure iam right.i dont know what to do. i talked to my doctor. she said to look for bruising and taring. i havent seen any so far. i am so confused. i am so scared. what if im wrong and i am just driving myself crazy? what if i am right and i cant find any proof? how could i let my son go over there having these suspicious? 
    please help me get to the bottom of this. any information will help. thank you in advance.