Hi.
 I was first diagnosed with BPD at age 13, subsequently, I have been diagnosed at least a dozen times over the proceeding 25 years with the disorder.
 What gets to me, is that I tried many years of psychological therapy, counseling, and made great efforts to improve- but failed.
 The doctors were always hesitant to prescribe me anything, but let me try a variety of SSRI and SNRI anti-depressants, none of which alleviated symptoms. I found one doctor who tried a few atypical neuroleptics, some mood stabilizers, no positive benefit. For years I gave up. Medicine will NEVER help I believed.
 However later on, during extensive research, I read about the effects of the Medial (and other) areas of the Prefrontal Cortex is emotional regulation. I also read about the evidence of specific serotonin receptor types playing various roles in regulating activity in such brain areas. Some having inhibitory and others excitation roles on function in the PFC.
 From this research, of my own initiative entirely, I found that in my country, the drug with the best Serotonin receptor profile is the atypical "anti-psychotic" Abilify. I studied hundred of medications as potentially suitable.
 4 months ago I started the medicine at 5mg, within a few days I noticed MARKED improvement. I have been on it ever since.
 I have not had a single emotional outburst, or any feelings of despair or depression since being on the medication. Indeed my tolerance to stressful provocation is profoundly higher. I have literally been in complete emotional control of myself since I have been on the medication, and I cannot explain how profound that is. I have never experienced such a thing in my whole life of 39 years.
 For example, in the two weeks before going on Abilify, I was having huge, explosive fights with my housemate. I was "cracking" under the stress of living with her, and smashed various windows, and had huge dramas at least 6-7 times in the 2 weeks before going on Abilify. Since then I have not had a single outburst. Indeed she was about to move out, now she wishes to live with me long term. Various people have commented on how I have changed. I don't lose control emotionally any more at all, even under conditions of strong provocation and sleep deprivation.
 It is important to note that it is certain that I do not suffer a disorder like Bipolar or any form of psychosis, by all measures BPD is the correct diagnosis, yet I don't effectively have it anymore while I am on this medication.
 My point and question is, I have been told my whole life that my disorder can only be targeted psychologically, and if it was not for my own initiative, I never would have tried this medication. I believe sooner or later I would have fallen fully back into severe alcoholism and ended up dead one way or the other (as I nearly have many times).
 What does my experience say about medication treatment not being appropriate for core BPD symptoms? I am not stating that everyone with the diagnosis would respond to or tolerate Abilify, but I am certain that the serotonin receptor mechanisms it effects, especially 5-HT1, 5-HT1b,5-HT2a, and 5-HT7 are of critical importance to some people with this disorder because the disorder is likely worsened or caused by abnormal Serotonin receptor densities in the Prefrontal Cortex areas regulating emotion and stress, a consequence of chronic exposure to stress or trauma during youth- at least partially.
 Not enough study has been done. But what few studies for BPD have been done show it to be highly effective. Further various studies show it to be highly effective in PTSD, conduct disorder, and treatment resistant depression among others. I am aware that more study needs to be done, but I am confident that drugs with such specific serotonin receptor altering effects have profound relevance especially to people with a chronic low tolerance to stress, and a tendency to rapidly provoked emotional states from relatively minor triggers.
 I know various youth in therapy for BPD, they are on the severe end of the spectrum. They need help. Standard anti-depressants seem rarely helpful for such people.
 What can I do to raise awareness? How can more research be encouraged to PROVE benefit of this drug to some people with BPD to a high enough standard that the medical community will listen? It is not just this drug, it is drugs with such excellent Serotonin receptor agonist/antagonist profiles.
 The truth is, while I was always tormented by the fact that I should, with or without therapy be able to progress against my deeply ingrained "psychological personality problems", that the answer was neuro-chemical manipulation!
 How can I explain to a General Practitioner that I wish the youth I know with severe BPD to at least briefly trial a low dose of Abilify?
 One of these youth for example frequently bashes her face so severely her face is often covered with serious bruising and lacerations. She is a lovely, warm  and very nice girl when emotionally calm, but her horrendous childhood has damaged her capacity to tolerate stress and emotional stimuli. There is excellent evidence the Prefrontal Cortex is generally the critical area in such cases.
 Any insight you can give me would be appreciated. I will probably give them the medication myself because they are on no other medications, have no contradictions or health problems, and the risk of 5mg for 1-2 weeks to measure effect is worth it and trivial to the risk their severely self-destructive behavior poses.
 I know 5 wonderful youth from horrid childhoods. They are intelligent and admirable as people, but they cannot tolerate mild stress, and on a frequent, prolific basis lose control  of their emotional state, clouding their reasoning. They are often regretful later. It is destroying their lives.
 Bye