ATTENTION: EXPERT ON PSYCHIATRIC MEDICATIONS
 hi, i am 36 years old. when i was 30 i came down with paranoia. now i am not paranoid anymore, whatsoever. i was recently taking 20 milligrams of geodon and 4 milligrams of perphenazine per day to prevent paranoia. and when i went down to zero milligrams of geodon i got chills up my spine, which i do not want. i have no fever and am not shivering right now. so i went back to taking 20 mg geodon after the one day of chills, still had chills and took another 20 mg of geodon. taking 40 mg of geodon did not stop the chills. i've still had them for two weeks or so. how do i come off of geodon and perphenazine without getting chills up my back? i do not feel paranoid anymore at all, not remotely, and i want to live a normal life off of medications completely. i have not had paranoia for over a year, even every time my psychiatrist allows me to lower my dosage, i just simply do not think paranoiac thoughts anymore and don't believe in them. i learned to oppose paranoid thinking patterns and i know that paranoid notions of people wanting to kill me are just not true. my previous psychiatric medications history: first of all, before i ever took psychiatric meds, even when i was paranoid, i did not have the sensation of chills up my back for longer than a brief second. i had previously taken depalept chrono or depakene, depakote, for 10 months, stopped for half a year, and then took depalept chrono for another year. depalept chrono caused me severe hair growth problems, extremely itching pruritus and many skin problems. then i took perphenazine for a short time, about a month, and at first it was fine, but high dosage of perphenazine gave me crazy chills and shivers on a hot day. i felt so cold i put on a few layers and a sweater. on that same day i went into paranoia. i felt that the odd feeling of the chills in my back and dressing inappropriately for the weather because i felt severe chills, contributed to the paranoia. so when i stopped the high dose of perphenazine, the chills went away and i stopped shivering. then i took lithium for a little while, but it gave me severe weight gain and sleeping problems, so i switched to geodon. i gradually went down from 80 mg geodon/4 mg perphenazine to 60 mg/4, 40 mg/4 and 20 mg/4. one time when i was taking 20 mg geodon, i think, i had a urinary infection and had the worst chills ever due to the infection. but after i got antibiotics against the urinary infection, the chills and shivers went away. when i was taking 20 mg geodon and 4 mg perphenazine, i felt a slight chill, without shivers, but one i could handle, one that was not too bothersome - and felt no paranoia. but the fact that coming down from 40 mg geodon to 20 gave me any chills whatsoever bothered me. but on the one day that i took zero mg geodon and 4 mg perphenazine, i got terrible chills, though not accompanied with fever or shaking, or shivering. and going back to the same 20 mg geodon has not helped. what do i do? i want to come off of geodon and perphenazine f o r e v e r and WITHOUT CHILLS! i never had any chills in my life before i started taking all these psychiatric meds! my psychiatrist says geodon and/or geodon withdrawal don't cause chills. my pediatrician says that if my psychiatrist says it's not from the geodon and the perhenazine, then it must be a virus or something. but i read online about geodon causing flu-like symptoms like chills, sensations of coldness, hypothermia, etc. i have read online that patients commonly complain of chills from taking geodon and chills from withdrawing from geodon. i read online that there is a rare but existing occurence of patients who get chills from perphenazine, which i had experienced previously. it sounds like there's no way out, like i'll never be able to come off of geodon and perphenazine without getting chills. what do i do? how do i come off of geodon and perphenazine forever without getting any sensations of cold, chills, hypothermia? as i have said before, i do not feel any remnant or hint even of paranoid thoughts, which in my case the geodon and perphenazine are supposed to prevent. i have learned to get over delusion paranoid notions that are not based on reality. actually the side effects of psychiatric meds bother me far more than the ultra-remote, far-fetched chance of my old paranoid fears coming true. when i used to be paranoid, if i heard someone walk by our house, i'd think they're coming to kill me, or if i heard people talking on the bus, etc, i'd eavesdrop to see when they'll mention killing me. i don't do that any more. i just don't care and am not interested in those unimportant things. so i am definitely not paranoid anymore. so why should i have to suffer chills up my back if i don't need anti-paranoia medication anymore? please advise me how to come off of geodon and perphenazine and any other psychiatric meds for good, without getting chills!