I hate myself, people in general, even my family. I have no friends, people think I'm strange because I'm so quiet. I'm sick of people asking me why I'm so quiet. People tend to treat me like an object instead of a person. Always telling me what to do, I'm sick of it. I'm not a baby! I'm pretty sure I have a mental disorder, most likely avoident personality disorder and selective mutism. People talk about me, when I'm right there! They have no respect for me. They don't realize I have feelings. I'm sick of being left out in partner projects. I'm sick of being rejected. I hate going to school, seeing everybody happy there kills me. I never smile, or say anything. I'm so miserable in school! I'm 16 years old, and I just wish I could drop out! I'm failing two of my classes, and I'm pretty sure I won't graduate high school or go on to college. Life is hell for me, I suffer in silence. I was diagnosed with depression by a doctor. My parents ignore the fact that I have depression. They yell at me when I'm feeling depressed. I just want to die, at least I'll be loved when I'm in heaven. I'm starting to feel bitter about everything. I lie in bed all the time, distracting myself by listening to music. It gives me an escape from the pains of everyday life. People say that I'm pretty but I don't believe them. I know that I'm ugly and worthless. My mom always calls me names like pig, stupid, a mute. She threatens to give me medicine for my "mental disorder". She tells me I'm crazy like my aunt. Nobody loves me or cares about me. I feel all alone in this world. I'm not getting treatment for my depression. My depression is getting worse. I've experienced several mental breakdowns. I was so upset about school that I sobbed and told my mom that I was going to throw myself out of the car. My mom yelled at me and belittled me when I got back home afterschool. My dad joined in. One time I got so upset about school, I threw a pillow at my mom's mirror and almost broke it. My mom threatened to knock me out afterwards. I look at myself and see a sad girl. I see the sadness in my eyes everyday. I don't eat very much, just one meal a day. I'm underweight, the last time I weighed myself, I was 98 ibs. I keep to myself all the time, I don't want to be rejected by people. I lock myself in my room and just try to escape from this horrible world. I'm unmotivated at school, I don't do my work in class or my homework. I feel like a bad lazy person. I've had so many absences, in school. The school threatened to put my mom in court! I need help!