I am at a loss, and don't know what to do.
 I've lost all desire to do anything anymore. Nothing excites me. Nothing makes me happy. I've lost all motivation. 
 I wake up, go to work, come home, go to bed, and do this every single day. I only do the essentials, like paying bills, buying groceries or cleaning the house, because they need to be done. If I could get by without doing those things, I would probably skip them as well.
 I have friends, but they're all married with kids, so going out and doing things with them is out of the question.
 I don't have many family members here, only my father, and he's getting up there in the years. 
 When I try to get a project going or do a project at work, if I don't see a positive outcome (ie. a reason for doing it other than just to do it) I tend to lose interest in it. I was the same way in school in this regard. For example, I was in honors classes, and one of the classes required that we memorize the name of every bone in the human body, but I never did because I didn't feel that  it would be something that I would use in my life.
 I feel emotionless. If the world collapsed around me right now, it probably wouldn't phase me.
 I do have depression, but don't feel this is depression. I've been down the "dark road", and have seen it, and this is no where near that. It's just a complete lack of desire and motivation.
 I have several projects I would like to be working on, and they should be making me excited, but...like I said...I have no desire to do them.
 I've noticed that I've been drinking more lately, but have realized that that hasn't helped much, and has even made things worse (and I hate waking up feeling crappy the next morning), so I've stopped doing that. However, I have been considering other methods of dealing with it such as taking pills (ie. painkillers), but really, really don't want to do that. My willpower is strong, but I don't want to be dependent on something like that to deal with it.
 I hate feeling like this, but don't know what to do about it.
 I could go back on meds like I was a few years ago...but am I only just masking the symptoms when I do that and not dealing with the disease, if you will?
 Any suggestions out there?