I wasn't really sure which topic to post this under and it might get long but here it goes. My soon to be 9 year old son is exhibiting major anger issues. He has been diagnosed with ADHD (sometime about 3/4 of a way through 1st grade) and after trying many different meds he is currently taking Vyvanse 30 mg once a day and has been taking it for a while. He is in 3rd grade and making good grades. He was adopted at 19 months old. His bio mother did drugs while she was pregnant with him and pretty much abandoned him immediately after she had him by leaving him with his 8 year old sister for long periods of time with no food. He was removed at 6 months and lived for 1 year with a non relative family who wanted to adopt him but couldn't financially afford it. He was then tossed between a couple of foster homes until we got him.
 Since he was about 4 he has always shown some anger, but nothing to make us feel that it was not normal. Lately (about the last month or so) he has been getting really angry. He says he hates his life, we are the worst parents ever, he wishes he could have different parents, etc. He bangs his fists on the ground or table, throws things, screams & yells, gets very sarcastic, is mean to friends, etc. Tonight he got angry while I was helping him go over his spelling words and started pulling his hair. He pulled it hard enough that some came out. He said he felt like being destructive and destroying something.
 Over the weekend he sent his friend crying to the bathroom over a picture that he knocked on the floor and the glass in the frame busted out. My husband & I both got very upset with him and told him he was being a jerk to his friend. He has done nothing but talked about the fact that we called him a jerk since that happened. He said that only a bad parent would call their child a jerk. We have gotten to the point where we feel like we might need to seek counseling. We asked him if he would like to talk to someone else and he immediately said that he doesn't need to talk to anyone else because it is no one's business and that only stupid people need counselors and that he isn't stupid. We have talked to him and told him that we don't think he is stupid and reassured him that we love him. We pray with him every night before he goes to bed... I don't know what else to do. This is such a contrast from how sweet he can be at other times. 
 I don't know if it is related to the experience in his past or if it is a side effect of the meds (through the little bit of research I have done on Vyvanse anger doesn't seem to be a huge problem unless I am missing something). I talked to his teacher the other day and mentioned the situation with my son's friend that happened over the weekend. They are in the same class and have been friends for years. She seemed surprised that our son would be that mean, so apparently she isn't seeing this behavior at school. Any ideas & should we pursue counseling or what? We will most likely call his doc to let him know and see if he feels like it could be the meds. 
 Would love to know other peoples experiences.