I am 23 years old and currently on Paxil 20mg a day for depression, OCD, and anxiety/panic disorder.  I have always had a problem with anxiety...but the depression has been in the past three years and the OCD more recently.  I am about to finish my first month of the medicine and then I am supposed to up to 30mg a day since the anxiety is not getting any better.  In the past month I have found that I have a HUGE desire to drink.  ALL DAY LONG.  I have NEVER been a big drinker....maybe a glass of wine at night....occasionally go out on the weekends...but since having my daughter I generally stay sober.  I have alot of self restraint and as a stay at home mom I generally do not have my first drink until close to 5 at night (knowing my husband will be home in an hour).  I am now not even interested in it...unless its VODKA 100 PROOF.  I have spent close to 300 in the past month alone on vodka.  My husband drinks alot....so between him and I we are going through close to 1.5Liters every two days.  To make matters worse I went out with some friends last night...(sort of a reward to myself as I never go ANYWHERE anymore) and apparently I was taking shot after shot after shot of liquor.  Chasing the shots with mixed drinks and beer.  I didn't think I drank that much last night....and don't really remember much of it (which is not typical of me).  Apparently I was LOUD, OBNOXIOUS, and when I got home I told my husband that he and my daughter would be better off without me....and I grabbed a knife and threatened to slit my wrists.  WHERE is that coming from!  Seriously?  I have NEVER behaved this way!  I guess I kept him up until close to 5 in the morning...complaining about my life and how I am a horrible mother.  
 Now...having said all that....has ANYONE else experienced this kind of behavior on paxil?  The medicine has been overall GREAT for my depression...and has truly given me part of my life back....but my daughter does NOT need to have a mother who can't even remember what she did the night before.  I have upset my best friend...my husband says that while overall I am much more enjoyable to be around...its like I don't care about ANYTHING.  It took alot for me just to admit that I had a problem with depression, etc...so now I have to admit that I still have a problem?
 Someone please?  Some advice?