My ex-boyfriend and I dated for 4.5 years. Our relationship was always very rocky, full of ups and downs, constant breakups, and drama. It wasn't a great relationship but we always managed to stick it through and work it out (or at least attempt to). Two years ago I decided enough was enough and ended it for good. I was extremely hurt because I loved him but I knew it was time to let him go. He started dating a girl weeks later and I was even more devasted. Months later he started looking for me and I decided to give it another shot since I still was nowhere close to being over him. Him and the girl had broken up and he wanted to see me again. Well that didn't go very far and we started this on-off thing for about 3 months. Then I again decided that this was a huge mistake and I began to move on with my life. I left the country for almost a year and accomplished my lifetime goal of traveling. Something I would have never done if I was still with him. During this year, we had no contact whatsoever. I figured he was dating someone and probably very happy. Two years since our official breakup and about 10 months since the last time I saw him, I find out he is engaged and I am devastated all over again. During all this time, I wanted to be single and not get involved with anybody new in order to give myself time to heal. But the reality is that I am now extremely lonely and terrified that I am going to stay single forever. I am not sure what I still feel for him, if its love or if I just miss the idea of us. He is a wonderful person and I truly wish him well but I can't avoid that fact that it kills me. For a long time now, I've known that we are not good for each other  but at the same time my heart has always held on to him and that slight chance that one day, after a long time has passed, we will see each other again and realize we love each other and magically make things work. 
 I don't know for much longer I am going to feel this way but it really scares me. I am 25 years old and not getting any younger and being single makes me feel even worse. All that I want is to get over him 100% to the point where I can truly be happy for him without feeling like death inside :(