When I was 16, I smoked pot and experienced debilitating dp/dr for 8 months. I didn't know what had happened, just that while I was high my heart was beating out of my throat, I was having racing thoughts, and I felt like I was already dead. For a couple years after, I had convinced myself it was laced and that I'd merely had a bad experience. Well, 8 months after the first incident I smoked again, had a milder experience, and when I tried to sleep at night I couldn't. It was as if someone was racing through a slideshow and my mind's eye was the screen. This, coupled with the feeling that the world around me was foggy/surreal drove me into a depressive state for a while. This feeling wasn't fully alleviated until around August 2014, when after being wrapped up in getting adjusted to college took my mind off of it. I sort of just woke up one day and realized I didn't feel like that anymore. Anyways, I had some friends who wanted me to try edibles with them (pot brownies) and I was apprehensive because of my past experiences, but I rationalized that it was a long time ago and that I should be clear to try it again. It was about 2 hours after ingesting the edible that it hit me when I laid down in my bed. My motor functions were delayed, my thoughts were racing, everything felt surreal, I had some epiphanies, and then it turned even more sour. I got in the shower to try and calm myself down and I began experiencing auditory hallucinations; they sounded like loud crashes, explosions, and cracks within my brain. I thought for a moment that I was God (it sounds silly, but after the incident it frightened me.) My senses were even out of whack, my tongue felt wet some moments and bone dry others. I smelled things that weren't there. My roommate was using IcyHot for an injury, and while high, I came back into the room, smelled it, and rationalized that I was dead and that a paramedic was using a strong smell to revive me. It was an awful experience. This all happened a week before winter break, so I was stuck at college in this dp/dr haze for that period of time before I could get home. Now I'm afraid of becoming schizophrenic/slipping into psychosis. I don't hallucinate or experience the symptoms, but my eyes have been dilated all day for the past four days, my thoughts are racing, I have the ruminating thought that I'll soon become crazy, I can't sleep, I'm experiencing this odd slideshow effect again when I try to sleep, my dp/dr is lingering, I haven't been able to manage stress well lately, and everything seems gloom or doom. Can someone offer insight into what might be wrong with me?