My son is now 24 years old. He was suffering from depression three years back. He did not go to college for two months continiously. He was just sitting in a corner and not going out any where. He was started with depression medicine. Doctor gave him Mirtaz tabs and one another tab. After six months he suddenly stopped medicine saying that I donot require this medicine. After eighth months he was to start the same again. Now because he was bahaving too rude he is given Aripizol 10 mg one tab daily for the last one and half month. My son is also complaining scrutal pain. His weight is now 99 kgs. My daughter says his weight is increased because he stopped taking medicine suddenly. His harmones got disturbed that is the reason he is putting weight. Is it true. Whether the pain is because of depression. Whether he require to take any particular  medicine for the purpose of reducing pain and to balance his harmones. He says that he do not require depression medicine now. Whether Psychiatrist can suggest any such medicine. I want to know details about the harmonal changes. Whether pshycitrics can give medicine for scutal pain also.Please advise. He is becoming angry on people for silly reasons. He says that he would cut the throat of them if he found them.Since childhood he is a reserved personality. Now slowly he is opening himself. When he goes to doctor alongwith me I only have to tell to doctor , he donot have that much expression power to explain his total story however he replies in short. I always give him opportunity to talk and more over my son was in such a condition that he was hating parents. He never wanted to sit before me to explain his needs and conditions. I always tried that he should interact with me but he always irritated me. From his behaviors what I understood that he wanted me to understand his needs or requirements either regarding his studies or any thing else without his explanation to me. In other words in his view explaining things before me was like begging something. He used to get so irritated on asking something or on instructing something that because of his irritation some times I used to get irritated inspite of a lot of patience. Regarding his study he always blames his mother saying that she did not explain his need before me. But when he is not sitting before and explaining or interacting how we could understand why he wanted to go for a management course immediately after engineering. There were different opinions about this moreover my mind was preoccupied with his health conditions. Now when I consulted psychiatrist he says that my son must take arpizol tab without fail and that this tab may reduce his weight and pain also. My son says he is willing to take ayurveda medicine but not aloepethic one. Doctor said there is no such combination available in ayurveda. Hence we require to give this medicine to him without his knowledge. If we do not give it then he will not get cured and will get further depression. Doctor says he is required to medicine for at least one and half year. How can we continiously give him the medicine for smooch long time. I was explaining my son to accept doctor's advise but he is not listening. What should be done now. Shall I continue giving medicine to him without his knowledge or shall I leave him to get further depressed. There are examples that youngsters have become mad when there were no body to treat them in time and there is an example in my known people  that one young boy died because there was no body to take care of him about his mental illness.