Hi, 
Again I am here. But this time I feel great, and Im making myself believe that  I am not a happy person, because of what happened to me. You may check all my post on my profile and hopefully connect to it.. I just wanna let you know, that you are not alone. Theres so many great people out there that can help you become a better person inside. 
I have been feeling soo much better about myself right now... because for once I am not blaming myself for my past experiences and I have one person to blame it on. The person who abused me. Unfortunately at this moment, he's still out there, because in court, he hasn't had the ability to wether deny or confess... So pretty much, its obvious hes gonna pay, and im coping with that. It's not a stressfull thing, because I believe in God and I know he will make justice. 
 Meanwhile, Ive been meeting new people, I am not longer hating myself, and being anti-social. BECAUSE, being abused when youre young, and not saying anything to anyone, specially the ones who love you, makes you create a fake world. A world that you can lose yourself, and almost forget your own identity, and to gain that identity back you have to go through a couple of steps. First, you have to accept the fact that you were abused and that now you are going to open your mouth, and say it out loud, I WAS ABUSED! Second, you will seek help, therapy, councelling, something that isnt too expensive. Specially see someone who is trauma therapy certified. They do know what it is like to be abused and are professionals. That should get you started to become more confident, more happy, more aware. BUT REMEMBER that for you to conquer this fight, you have to accept alot of things, you will have to accept the fact that you want to change, you want to become happy inside, you want the dark clouds (the ones that are between your stomach, that leads you to become angry)..... to let the happiness of light go through. Certainly it is a good idea to have faith, faith in something you believe! Those to me, are the most important things I live right next to me, in my mind, all the time. Because that allows me to remember,.. "oh yeah, I am doing this because it's going to be a good thing in the end.. .the result will probably be good!" 
The other thing is; love yourself. It's hard, and yeah what happened to you was probably the most horrible thing to man kind, but having encouragement from peers and family, will give you smiles. and all you need to do it work on yourself all the time! 
 Ill post more info soon, Im very excited to go to court, and put that scum in jail, where it belongs. :) 
 "Together, we can make great things happen. :)"