My boyfriend left me after 4 years because he said I'll always be mentally ill and will never beable to get better. He told me it was impossible for me to have a normal life and improve with my health because im too ****** up. He told me that last christmas day in fact. The year has gone so quick though. It only feels like 2 seconds ago. I've been grieving the heartbreak ever since because i did really love him and i never loved anyone else before cept my dad. I was really improving with my health though i thought, it was only when the doc told me im infertile...which has since been proven wrong, that i broke down and was in crisis. All my fella kept saying was 'why aren't i enough?' he was sick of me. I gave him so much time and space when things were tough only to find out he was just getting rid of me and inviting the local skank into our bed with him. They are even still together now and hes so happy hes not with me. it makes me feel si worthless and like no man will ever love me again. But i feel that i need that, i need a mans love to feel whole. I think its because of my dad, he groomed and sexually abused me for years and then left and that was it. He left such a massive hole because i was in love with him, i was only a child but he still made me feel that way from the grooming. since then ive never coped well alone, life has always seemed black and white and empty and cold unless someone loves me. I think its my source of self esteem. not very healthy but i cant seem to change it. I find myself looking for someone to think im amazing again and make me feel good and pretty and loved. If i didnt have such a big hole in my heart from my dad in the first place maybe i wouldnt be this weak. maybe i wouldnt need someone else and i wouldnt care what everyone thinks of me. All i know is that i feel worthless, unpopular, lonely, sick, not good enough, unhappy, depressed, lovesick, worthless, a bad person, a failure, unloveable, unable to be loved, pointless, obsessive, anti social, bad company, talentless, fat, ugly, a dope addict, uncureable, old and with no money and little friends. My family are all i have but i cant talk to them about Dad, they dont understand. I just want all these feelings to stop, I dont want this hole in my heart, I dont think its even able to heal, i feel hopeless. I feel so overwhelmed right now all i want to do is self harm and burn myself or cut my arms. Part of me even thinks that because im so ugly inside it wont matter how good i try to look so i may aswell just **** up my body, cut it, burn it, harm it, disfigure it. I know i prob wont as i have some fight left in me. Its just running so thin. I dont have enough decent coping strategies to handle the pain and its always been that way. im in therapy at the moment but its not on over christmas so i feel even more down than usual. Last time i felt like this i pretended the world was just a game and decided to pop out of it for a second, believeing i could walk back in so long as it avoids the bad times, i tried to hang myself. I didnt intend to die, i was just thinking crazy. i wasnt on my meds though i am back on them now. i bet i sound like a right freak to be honest. but im just so so hurt. So hurt and scarred by my childhood and endless bad relationships with abuse everytime. i seem to attract all the wrong people and the people i do attract that are good, i somehow seem to make them turn bad. its like i ruin everything i touch. it makes me so unhappy and feel like my life will never be a happy one and ill never get a family of my own to love because no-one can love me. i cry so much, i try so hard to cope. i try to not wallow. but sometimes the wounds too deep, like some days it feels like someones picked at all my scars and reopened the wounds. i dont think i want my life to end. but i dont have much going for me except my cose family. they'd feel horrible if they thought they were not enough. i dont feel that way on purpose though. i just loved my dad so much and then it was all gone. that hole was filled for years till i was 10. it just had such a massive impact on me and my life. Especially my self esteem. i felt like, was i not a good enough daughter anymore? did he get sick of me? is that why everyone does? im always scared things will go wrong. i wish it just didnt hurt me so much. i cry till my eyes are red raw at least 3 times a week with this.