My name is Andrew and I am 19 years old.
 Before you judge me, read my entire story and put yourself in my shoes.
 I am here after posting a journal almost everyday for 4 years, and now I am at odds with the website because I have not received any support lately.
 Here is my story:
 My entire life I feel like I have been beat down by people. When I was a child, I was abused by both of my parents who blamed all of their problems on me and treated me like garbage.
 My father would beat me everyday almost for fun like it was a game. He was the root of all evil in my life. Everything that he had failed at in his life was my fault, even things that happened before I was born. I am convinced to this day he had some sort of mental illness. He would always emotionally manipulate me with fear, threats, and violence. There was one point where he wanted to kill me. That is how he got his power.
 My mother never did anything to help me from him and would always ignore me. The only way she showed affection for me was buying things for me, which I never wanted, I only wanted her to love me. She always worked because my father never had a job. She was never there to protect me from him and when she was, she never listened to me. Eventually, she became more violent towards me as she began to emotionally deteriorate because of him.
 At school from kindergarten to twelfth grade, I was always ridiculed and had few, if any, friends. Sometimes the teachers would join in too. No one ever helped me. No one ever cared. Nobody asked me what was going on at home to help me. Everyday when I was I child I would always think, "When is this going to end?" I never did anything to deserve this treatment.
 With all of this stress, it eventually boiled over when I was 15 years old when I nearly had a mental breakdown. To deal with this stress, I usually looked at naked women on the internet to relieve my stress. It has been like this for the last four years. I don't have any other reliable stress outlets. If I don't relieve my stress, my thought process slows down and I can barely function. Yes, my stress has become that severe at times.
 When I was 16 years old, I turned in both of my parents into CPS. They were both arrested, but they eventually got out as there was no evidence to prove what they did to me. I spent the last days of my childhood in a Youth Shelter and various foster homes as an older child who was not wanted. I eventually met my adoptive parents who I am convinced are one of the few people on this planet who actually cares about me.
 When I turned 18, I joined the United States Air Force to get away from my old life. Overall, things have been going well, but the same trends keep reappearing in my life from the past. I can't stop looking at naked women on the internet. I don't have hardly anyone to hang out with outside of work. Worse of all, people were so mean to me, that I became a mean person who only goes to the gym because everyone wants to fight him.
 Why did I come here? I came here because I need some advice to help me clear my mind. I am willing to let it all go. Just help me.
 My mind is my greatest tormentor. I can never get peace because my trends from the past keep haunting me. \
 Why are people so mean?