I felt really depressed and just started writing, a stream of consciousness sort of thing. And I thought I would post it here, though it may not be the appropriate venue, and allow others to read it. I think it conveys some of my feelings. Please tell me what you think. Here is is: 
   I can’t fall asleep at night. I never could. It has been going on for as long as I can remember, probably since I was four or five years old. My parents say I used to wake up screaming from night terrors, but the only thing I remember were the headaches. Sometimes I would wake up cold, sweaty, and with sharp, jagged pain radiating around my skull. I guess at that young age, I never really gave it much thought. Don’t get me wrong, though. It hurt badly. The only thing that kept my fear in check was my sweet innocence. I was far too busy discovering the world. You know what I mean? The way the lake ripples when you throw a rock in it, the way the sun causes invisible oil slicks on the road, and the way the wind feels on your hand when you wave it out of a moving car. Those were the things I wanted to think about, not how sick I was. Besides, I didn’t think I would kill me.
 It’s amazing how time flies.  Now I am older, wiser, yet still not able to get any better. Most of the time, I am forced to stay up all night. I try to meditate, but it is often a failed attempt. I have concentration problems, and I’ve never claimed to be smart, although I did do well in school. I remember one time, my teacher handed back a math test where everyone failed but me. I don’t really know why, but I didn’t feel any joy. If I could, I would have had the teacher pass everyone and fail me. Because sometimes it is better to help the wounded than reward the healthy, no matter how unjustly. 
 Sometimes I write while I’m awake at night. I’ve never been one for big words, though. I’ve never understood the reasoning behind big words meaning big thoughts. I, personally, never really cared what words I used as long as I got my point across. Call me simple if you’d like. It doesn’t bother me. Like I said, I’ve never claimed to be smart. 
 My favorite part of the night is when the cars stop zooming down the road, the clouds begin clearing from the sky, and the pitch black darkness starts singing to me. I like to watch the stars. Sometimes I take my binoculars and get better looks at them. I imagine what’s beyond the frightening black blanket. I wonder if there is anything at all. Someone once told me that space was like a giant bubble, but finite. “A huge Dallas Cowboy’s stadium” is how he described it, though I didn’t believe him.  I just like to think about things. You know what I mean? 
 When the night is over and morning is beginning, I feel relieved, but not in a symbolic or metaphorical way. I feel relieved physically. My legs don’t ache as much, my muscles don’t strain as much, and my heart doesn’t scare me as much. I feel happier. But I know my happiness is only transitory, as I will begin this process all over again as soon as I wake up. But it’s okay. It’s okay to be alive and wounded rather than not being alive at all. Someday someone will be able to help me. I have hope for that. I see it every day when I step outside my house and see the wind blow the trees, the rain wet the grass, and the sun strengthen the flowers.