This might get a little long winded, so I apologize beforehand. It all started about 2 years ago when I got reaquainted with a friend from my past. I hadn't seen or known anything of him since we were kids. We slowly started dating and became pretty inseperable. He told me about how his dad was abusive, his mom never cared about him, and how his ex wife was a money stealing coke head that cheated on him. I believed everything he toldme because I also come from a very broken family and understand how hard it can be. He also told me how his family forced him into a psych hospital when he was about 8. And later while married, he went in twice by his ex wife. He dismissed all the reasons for them sending him there, and summed it up to be because he has depressino and panis attacks. Also he told me that his ex wife used his family's past against him to hurt him. Again I believed him. We moved in together about 6 mos after we started dating. That's when the crazy stuff happened. He was always having panic attacks, would never show emotion, was always wanting to smoke weed, and wanted sex multiple times a day. He had rage issues, and would fly off the handle at any given moment. There's so much more that I could say, but I can't even get it all down on paper there's so many little signs. We would always fight because he spent all our money. I figured that was just how life went. until last Friday when he up and left. Aparently he's found a new girlfriend who is younger than we are and has a child. Now this makes me worry because the child is defenseless and she has no idea what she's gotten herself into. And of course I still love him like crazy. I want to get him help before it's too late. Unless it already is. I've reached out to his family to see if they could be of some assistance, and Im going to be meeting with his Aunt tomorrow I hope. i don't know if he's ever loved me really. i don't know if this whole relationship was based around dilusions and lies to cover up. He hasn't been on meds for a long time because of it. He says they turn him into a zombie and he can't function. I don't know. I've never seen him on the meds. What do I do? What am I supposed to think? Is it right for me to try and get him the help he so desperately needs and sometimes wants? I don't really know what I'm asking. I'm pretty much at a loss right now. I just want to save the person I love, even if we can't be together.