My husband and I have one big issue that leads us living separately and maybe heading for divorce. The problem is that he and his 14 year old daughter are treating each other like a couple rather than father and daughter. The therapist told me that it is called "emotional incest" and if he is not willing to correct his behavior then it is not going to work. I felt very uncomfortable being around them for the way they show each other affactions via some inappropriate physical touchings. For example, he called her baby all the time and ran his fingers through her hair while she enjoyed stroking his chest hair, arms, cheeks.. and such, either going out sitting in the restaurant or at home on the couch where they usually snuggle together. I only get the attention in our bedroom where he feels that his daughter is not watching and therefore, it is "safe" to be intimate with me. Of course, he is showering her with everything she asks and is afraid to say no to her for anything. I feel sorry for my very young daughter that we have together, and a 7 year old who get to put to the lower priority. He expressed that he wants to make this marriage work but I do not think he has any clue about how much his unhealthy entanglements with his daughter affects me. He was very defensive about it when I tried to bring up the issue. He told other people that I do not understand that father daughter *need* to have intimate relationship. It feels like this situation is something that I have to suffer as an isolated incident, it is hard for friends and family to understand the behaviors cause it is masked by a father daughter relationship that appears to be intensely devoted. We still see each other on a couple of nights in a week when he does not have his daughter and as usualy, if she is not in sight, we always have a wonderful time together. I found this experience traumatizing and humiliating, at the time time, we have great relationship without his daughter between us. I do want to be treated as a wife with respect at all times from him.. but without his willingness to understand the boundary concepts, what it means by being fair and how it affects other family members when overindulges his 14 year old, there is no chance for this marraige to work. I need help on how to approach and tell him how his behavior is not helping the situation and when do I know that this is absolutely no hope to stick around any longer?