Im 14 and I think I'm depressed. I cant think straight anymore its so hard to read and write. I used to be so literate but now its like I have to use simple words to not pass out or get a migrane. I know I have stomach related issues and I'm on some medication now for what might acid refulx, but I've never had this kind of problem eating. I'm never hungry anymore when I used to be always eating. I've always eaten a lot, but I did a lot of sports and it made up for it. Last year I had a minscus tear in my knee and I still havent gotten back from it. Yes I can walk around and run, but my conditioning has never fully come back leaving me a little bit bigger then I should be. If I could excerise more I would, but its hard enough with conditioning but I used to love sports. Now it's like I'd do anything to get out of them. They just dont interset me anymore as much as they used to. Also I always have gotten migranes, but now I get them every day.  Its awful and i just want to scream and cry. I used to keep a journal of all of my feelings and I loved to write and draw, and was told I was decent at both. Now, even typing this, hurts my head and I get that little ache in the back of your throat when you're about to cry. I cant think straight. I dont cut or attempt suicide but I have been thinking about suicide a lot latley, like how I would do it and what would happen if I did. At first I was pretty sure I would go to heaven but as my problems worsened  god seems like a joke to me. Especially because my grandfather who is now dying, it's obvious he won't be with us much longer, of alhzemiers and the only reason my families being nice to him is hes dying. My grandpop was a real jerk when he had his mind about him and I  guess that thats what would happen to me if I died. Everyone would act like they loved me. As you can tell, I've had way to many medical scares as it is and many more I havent mentioned. Ive never faked anything but I always am sick or hurt. Ive earned a reputation as a cripple even in my parents eyes, so Im not exactly going to come right out to tell them anything. When I was at the doctor concerning with my stomach issues, she said that all of the stress of these constant problems is probably making me mildly depressed and that I should see a therapist. My regualr pediatriction gave me a depression test and told me I should see a therapist. The doctors did not know that the other one already recommened this. On both occasions, it was only my mom in the room with me and as far as I know she didn't tell my dad anything. ( Im pretty sure I know this because walls are thin and I was there when she gave him the initial overview of the apponitment and didnt mention it either times) My dad actully is a factor in all of this not for physical abuse but verbal. He is constantly calling me and my brother retard and other lovely names. He still calls us these things when my moms around but not nearly as bad when she isnt. My brother has ADHD and my dad treats him like crap for it such as calling him names in public and making him cry. I hate my dad.I hate myself honestly. One reason for that is because of me hitting my brother. I hate that I do that so much. I dont know how else to control myself, all a sudden if I get angry I'll start socking my brother in the face if no one else is home. I cant control myself. Ive gotten much better but i still WANT to and I sicken myself. My brother is one of the kindest beings on earth yet he has to deal with me and my dad. To make my brain even more clearer, not really, is im having meomry issues. Sometimes ill forget i just asked someone a question and ask it again apprantly or so ive been told. But i dont remember it later, i just remember the last time i asked according to my friends. also theres another thing with my memory that confuses so many people i can only explain in an example.  Ok lets say for the first time EVER I went to the local corner store bought some milk, went home, and the milk was spoiled. While this happens it seems like the first time i did this. But after the fact maybe thinking about the incident or relaying the story to someone else all of a sudden my meomry switches and it seems like i did that more than once, ive done it before or even multiple times before. My parents dont know about this and they dont know about my brother, my views on my grandpop my eating problems or my lack of interst in anything. Please help i feel like im drowning. I know the basics go out with friends, ( made me feel worse, theyre living normal lives while im stuck in this world where i cant think straight) start something new ( good for the first mintue then lost interset) try something old (no interset cant even conentrate on it my heads spinning) i cant tell my parents. what i honestly want is just to go to some nuthouse so i call all this stuff out without having the world looking at me.