For the past two years I was in a very bad time in my life. I was essentially isolated and the people I was around would put me down. My mom over looked it and didn't stand up for me. When I would go to visit my dad, I got away from it all but I was still getting used to the new living arrangements with his new wife and her family, so I wasn't able to thrive and be myself. Now I'm in college and out of the bad environment, but it had so much of an effect on me I am in on way to the same person. Not only am I no longer the happy, witty, well-spoken person I used to be, but sometimes I don't have anything going on in my head. I don't think a lot and I can barely remember a single line from the previous commercial on T.V. Before all of this, I could remember what I was wearing a year before on the same day, so it's new and hard for me. When I learn something new, it quickly slips my mind. Being that I'm just starting college, this poses a problem for me. It's hard for me to think straight and reiterate what I have just learned. I can't even repeat a joke back I heard ten minutes before. Becoming an adult, I feel like these are skills I need to have under my belt. I have been a very smart kid, always on honor roll. My grades haven't been affected by this change, but I feel like it might and I don't want to chance it. 
I used to never run out of things to talk about with my friends, but now I'm socially awkward in most situations and rarely have anything to say. I love being close to people, but when I was in that bad part, I pushed my friends away, and now I'm not sure how to get close with anyone. I still care, but I don't know how to show it. 
I'm sick of being awkward in social situations, even with my family. I just want to be liked. I want to think again, and be able to remember what I learned about in class the day before. I want the simple things back in life like close friends and heart to hearts with my mom. I just want to live. I feel like every day that goes by is being wasted because it feels like I'm barely here. I'm fading away. I just want to get better.