This girl i know she walks a lone it isn't cold but it is dark, there's so many missing pieces to her heart. 
 She has deep deep scars that may never heal she wishes they weren't there but the pain she feels makes them real.
 She can't help but go back to the pain she feels everyday, knowing these scars won't ever fade of go away.
 She has nothing, she is lost and a lone, Has no place of her own no place she can call home. 
 She feels far away from anything she touches, No sense or feel of reality makes her nauseous. 
 Sometimes the pills help but they never make it stop, she's waiting for the time to be over as she sometimes watches the clock, wondering when the time is she'll be set free, no longer hurt no longer empty. 
  She cries almost everyday, she lets her days just slip away, and is hurt by any little comment people might say, It burns deep still to this day.
 She lights up a cigarette to try to relax, as soon as it burns out her hurt comes and lights itself up right back. 
  Why me? she always says, asking herself questions she doesn't know the answers too, so sometimes she'll reach out just for you.
But what can you really do? When that pain doesn't live inside of you? 
 They scold her with tough love to eat, to get a job, to get a license, they think she's spoiled some call her a snob, They don't know of her problems, they don't know how often she just places her head on her hands and sobs. 
  She wants to run away to California, disneyland some place happy, some place where her pain will be let go of and set free.Somewhere she can escape , where she knows a smile will appear on her face.
 But she's stuck where all these memories began , with no one there to lift her up or to hold her hand, to tell her it's going to be OK , or to tell her they will love her everyday. 
 No one knows how bad it hurts, no one knows what there love is worth, how much it would help just to be told i love you, so she could reply with i love you too. Shes always been left shes always been hurt, is this really what she deserves? 
 Blind to love, blind to happiness, but the hurt shines too bright, even in the darkest hour of the night.
     ( I wrote this when i was at my worst , but i wanted people to know that I am OK and that recovery is possible , because i felt like there was no way up, maybe there is no way up, but there is always a way out, remember to love yourself and to love yourself enough to stay and fight. Remain happy in hard times, and cherish those you love, and those who love you. )
 p.s. if you read thanks for reading.