Hi Guys,
This is a complex story, I will try and keep it as simple as I can.
In brief, I came down ill in April 2012, initially they thought I had M.S or something similar: to date no concrete evidence of any and after a battery of testing nothing conclusive. Nonetheless, excluding the numbness and pin and needles (maybe the possibilty of m.s, at a later date) these are my current symptoms:
 Neck discomfort, not chronic pain but very weak and tender, this started approx 18mths ago and now is every day all day.
 Chronic pain in limbs this was intermittent before lasting a few ago and then went, now for the last 6 months its been chronic everyday all day, but mainly worse a night where its quite unbearable, mainly in right leg and both arms.
 Bones feel tender much more than usual, I cannot have people lean on me and vicer versa, this has been approx 9 mths and by breast bone area and arms seem the most tender, although my legs bones are too, but not as bad.
 I have spontaneous sickness, without any causes at all. Sometimes it has lasted a few weeks but only appears to be the morning when I actually vomit. It goes away, then can happen here and there for a day, and may be sick 1-7 in an hour and I am then as right as rain. I have not been sick now for 7 weeks, but this is quite typical.
 My skin has got really itchy later but much worse after 10pm for some reason, and I itch anywhere and everywhere, although I have itchiness in the day its not so noticeable.
 I'm hot allot at night time, and sweat allot but not to the level of drenching the sheets. Not much in the day.
 I have bruised much easier than normal, every time I have a blood test or a canular in, it leaves me with huge bruises, and very tender.
 I appear dehydrated, I have been placed on saline twice, this was found incidenlty, as I had another minor op (colcoscopy on cervix..no cancer found) . It could be caused by medication though.
 Terribly tired and fatigued since May 2012, sometimes it so bad I fall asleep in the day for 4 hrs, after only being up for 2. then it improves, then it happens again.
 I keep feeling chills, achey, like i'm gonna come down with the flu and then nothing happens? this started 18 mths ago, again was quite sporadic and intermittent, probably last a few hours once in while. Now its everyday a few hours some times more, occasional I wake up badly shaking feverish and then a few hours later it goes.
 Lastly I get tender tonsil every few weeks, i never have throat infection or  tonsillitis, it last a few hrs - couple of days, not really painful, then disappears and comes back a  few later. antibiotics didn't work or diflam (antiseptic numbing throat spray).
 Test 6 blood test over 2 years revealed raised white cell count between 11.2 and 15.3 at the highest and raised neutrophils 9.1 - 11.3 at the highest.
 Head and neck MRI  December 2013 noted "cervical nodes are noted"
The exact same was noted on the next MRI done this April 2013.
 I have a Hematologist app in 6 weeks. I dont know what to expect, my g.p said they may wish to do  a bone marrow.
 So I guess my question is could I have Leukemia or Lymphoma?
What will the Hematologist do and be looking for?
What does "cervical nodes have been noted mean"?
 Many thanks in advance, sorry for the long post