I need advice because I dont know what is going on and I have no one to turn to.
 My husband and I have been married for 10 years and together for 11. I left my family and friends in NJ and moved to FL back in 2006 in order to start a new life with him. We had 3 kids together the youngest is only a year old. I lost my job in 2012 so we had to move into his parent's home. His mother went into an uproar over it telling him I need to get an abortion, that she needs me to take a paternity test. My husband screamed at her that day defended me tooth and nail telling her not to talk that way about his wife etc. Both she AND my father in law disliked me since day 1 because of our age difference and prior to even moving in with them they were always trying to get him to divorce me.
  I went on to have our baby (my father in law is also severely abusive towards everyone including myself filled with temper tantrums, screaming and calling names every day punching  holes in walls spitting in faces). My husband still stuck by me regardless. We grew so close and I felt SO lucky to have a man like that even though our situation was not ideal by any means. He was going to college full time AND being a great husband and father to our kids.
 His parents wanted him to go to Miami 7 hours away to stay at his uncle's home to enter a certificate program. I was devastated because he left me here with these crazy people completely alone with his 3 children and no car. A blowout happened here after a few months and they arranged it so I could go down to stay with him at his uncle's home for awhile. That didnt work out well because the whole family is nuts! My husbands aunt is just as crazy as my mother in law. Manipulative, mean, blaming me for everything my husband did to make her angry not to mention she is an alcoholic who drinks from the time she wakes up until the time she falls asleep at night. She is a cat hoarder on top of everything else. 7 months later his aunt decided she didnt want me there anymore and forced me to back up here with my inlaws without my husband.I saw texts from her on his phone telling him he needed to divorce me its inevitable anyway and HE AGREED saying i was a mistake he made hes going to correct. I saw similar texts from his brother telling him to divorce me and my husbands response? "not until shes in NJ". When confronted he told me he didnt mean all of those things but its hard to comprehend!
 Last year in April my husband admitted he had a 2 week fling with a woman he met at a bar on the beach in Miami. He lied to her about being married and having kids. I quickly got tested for STDs especially since I started having extreme pain and blood in my urine only to find out he had given me Trichamonas and HPV. I was devastated. The man who always was by my side and who never would dream of being unfaithful betrayed me in the worst way. He still wanted to be with me and he ended it right away with that woman. We had a good marriage for SO many years and its still shocking to me that he did this.
 I had given him many chances to make things right and he claimed he wanted to but nothing ever changed much. I dont even see him we dont have a relationship because all we do is talk on the phone and skype occasionally.
 Here is where the problem is now..my husband and I rarely ever see each other maybe a week at a time every 3 months. His father and mother have been conspiring to get us to divorce..his father lies to my husband trying to start fights and now he has driven down to where my husband is for months at a time spending all of my husband's free time with him. When my father in law is actually up here he threatens me, tells me i need to divorce his son and that HE will preemptively sue me for custody like HE is the father of my kids? WTH!  My mother in law told me i could go see him she would talk to her sister and arrange it yet tells everyone including my husband that shes not going to arrange anything.
 When he was here in December he was acting like such a jerk, he hardly wanted to be intimate with me and spent most of his time either playing with the kids or in his dad's room whenever he told him to go in there. I got upset of course. he made all these plans with me to stay up here to finish school but it was all a lie so yes I was pissed off.  I noticed he was hiding his phone from me and I told him i wanted to see it but instead of just showing me he refused to let me go near it so I took it and walked down the driveway with it since i paid for it anyway and what does he do? Tells his mom who already hates me and she chases me down the driveway threatening to call the cops on me. Every time i tried to communicate with him like we used to he refused and would call me names. I am NOT a bad person I am the only one here who acts like an adult and i get called "crazy" and a "lowlife" by them AND my husband. The icing on the cake was when my husband hit me "accidentally" with the car which bruised my leg so bad and knocked me down but he never apologized, never asked if i was okay and was only concerned about the fact he thought i was faking an injury to ruin his future career. His mother said the same thing. Its weird how a grown man who used to defend me and himself has reverted to telling mommy and daddy when I upset him? Hes unwilling to communicate at all with me and I cannot count of him. I cant stand the broken promises and lies constantly. 
 My inlaws have admitted their goal is to make me go to NJ to my family, not let me come back here for my children and call CPS on me saying I abandoned them. They even tell my husband and other family members this is their goal. 
 He never defends me when they badmouth me daily to him and he has done nothing to make it so we can see each other. I asked him why hes doing this and he says "im lost and I have issues" or "I cant **** my parents or aunt off or my parents will cut me off and i have to depend on them financially now". He tells me every other day to keep secrets from them about what he does and how much he cant stand his father who is an overbearing controlling loser. All i wanted was for him to come up here so I can get a job again and get us out of here on our own.
 Yesterday my husband and I got into a fight over the phone and omg the insults he threw at me -  my lifestyle, saying I dont care for myself enough and I am a bad mom, telling me im supposed to fend for myself when it comes to my own medical issues, all of his complaints are the SAME complaints his parents have about me. He told me all I do is burn bridges and that is why im here and cannot see him and that is why I am so hated by his family.
  Several times in the past hes told me to go back home to NJ  and leave the kids here so what am I supposed to think? But after all of this he messages me telling me he loves me so much and he never brings up divorce. If i dont talk to him for 2 days he goes crazy calling and texting at 4AM. Its a vicious cycle. He changed all of a sudden last year into a giant man baby/single guy and never changed back and I cannot wait forever. Last week he even threatened to cheat on me unless I stay with him in addition to saying Im a b**** for trying to destroy the kids family they will have in the long run by leaving. His parents' wants and needs and his own come before mine now.
 I dont know what do. If im so horrible and he hates me so much then why keep me hanging on like this? I am totally trapped here with these crazy people who hate me and are trying to control my marriage.  Every time i threaten to leave he says "what can i do". When i tell him he never does it. Is it possible for him to change and realize what hes doing? What would it take? Should I just call it quits or should I just stop answering the phone and texts he sends for a few weeks. I know he could make his parents back off and make it so he can see me but hes afraid of them I think.