Anyone out there experienced Emotional and physical abuse? I was always feeling that I was doing something wrong and that I am not good enough. He was always pushing me to please him. The harder I tried the more he picked me apart. I was always physically sick in his presence. We were both professionals but I learned the hard way that abusive people comes in all levels. We both have our own homes and I have ended the relationship with this man due to the fact that my teenage daughter begin to take on the sad spirit that she saw me walking around with. No matter how I tried to hide the emotional and verbal abuse from her she say right through me. Finally after so much stress and pressure from the constant blaming me for his anger and his pitfalls in his own life I had a stoke from the stress. I was able to recover in 3 weeks because the stroke was treated in a timely manner. This is the first time I ever seen my abuser show me any emotion. He admitted that he felt responsible. As I got better and my speech and strength in my hands increased I told him that I forgave him. Wrong to do with an abuser. As soon as he got those words the abuse started up again.  The constant blaming me for his anger and his outbursts were back. My daughter took my cell phone without my knowing and asked him why he always give me a hard time? He begin to blame me to my daughter for things happening in our relationship and she just hung up on him and begged me to leave this man alone. I took her advice  and have not contacted him nor has he tried to contact me but this is part is his withholding game and blame game to make me carry his bad behavior. I am over this 50 year old man conducting himself like a teenager. The tantrums, outbursts, were out of this world. I have been so use to his put downs and abuse until I find myself missing him but yet feels so glad he is out of my life so I can breath. I don't feel that caged feeling anymore but I am feeling like I am missing my abuser, how can that be? I am reading book after book and it has helped a great deal but I feel attracted and use to him. How do I rid him once and for all out of my life. I don't want to see him ever again but I am still very much in love with my abuser. GO FIGURE.  Please talk some sense to me because this is not making any sense to me? Am I that co-dependent?