I am 41, m, and have for the past 15 years or so, indulged in living in a dream world. This happens when I am drunk, or when i am in bed, trying to sleep. Progressively, i need to get drunk more to go in a make belief world as my rational mind does tell me its not truth. I have never consulted a doctor on this or taken any medication. However, recently I was diagnosed with Vertigo, and the vertigo only comes after i have had a drinking session (generally once a month) after a few days, the vertigo dissappears. I am fairly successfull in my career, but dream of spectacular success, unrelated in my field of work, maybe sports, acting, singing, etc. Sucidal thoughts have crossed my mind several times, and once (abt 10 years back) because I was so angry with myself, i had stubbed a lighted cigaratte on my wrist, slowly so that it hurt more. Not contented, i lighted another one and stubbed it on my thigh. That was in a apartment where i was staying, and my friends were in another room, and they never know what happened as i did not feel the pain, i did not even sigh. My reactions to most day to day business situations borders on being paranoid, but i justify it to my team on "playing safe" theorey. Almost all times of day, there are thin, small noise in my ears (like a untuned radio etc.), which only now i noticed. (no audio hullucinations)
 When I am severely wronged (in a normal business situation, a important contract I lose, or a business company dumps me for better money etc. It has happened a few times that i had day dreamed of torturing him, severly). Thankfully,  I have never harmed anyone in my life (except myself), and KNOW will not do that. My rational side also tells me that is just a mental way of overcomming the loss. My emotions and thoughts are in check, but the fact remains that I cannot sleep without imagining myself in some unrealistic life, wildly successfull.
My drinking pattern is also strange, for years I drank heavily. but then i suddenly quit and was sober for maybe 6 years or so. Now I do not drink, but when I do (maybe once every 6 or 8 weeks), I cannot stop till I pass out.
 Would this be being schezophrenic?