So..im about 3 months and 2 weeks pregnant. My situation in a nutshell is that my boyfriend at the time basically asked me to move out and go back home, which is on the other side of the world literally, because he said he thought he had a drug problem and wanted to get better so i went home and he had assured me he loved me and wanted to be with me forever radee rah. I was so afraid b/c we both knew i could be pregnant..
 So I get home, 5 days later i finally hear from him, told me he didnt love me, didnt want any kind of girlfriend. so we didnt talk for about 3 weeks, I confirmed I was pregnant, told him, he wanted me to get a abortion, told me he wasnt going to be there, he didnt want this , he didnt want anything to do with me or the baby. Turns out that day he got into a official relationship with his ex girlfriend, now this "girl" harassed us, me, through the whole relationship, she called constantly and he alwaaaaays reassured me he was over her and told me all these awful things about her and how they both cheated, actually she got a abortion for him because he said he didnt love her.
 sooo this all happened about 3 months ago and I've been coping, trying to get my life in order and work and work. but I recently received a email from him, it didnt say much but that he wanted me to know "he was fine with my decision, and if i needed something finically to tell him" and hes tried calling me twice, i sent him a email saying i would like to set up a time to talk since im working weird hours and im in the states and hes in australia. so i havent heard anything else  from him and im not going out of my way to talk to him after everything he has said and done and has ignored me for 3 months. and its brought up a lot of anger i had suppressed and horrible anxiety. I never hear from his family. im so incredibly hurt how i was just treated literally like garbage..it hurts so bad and i feel so awful and hurt for my baby, she or he deserves all the love and respect in the world and i hate how he has treated my unborn child already. She/he deserves a fulltime daddy not some loser...
 basically i just need reassurance from other single mothers who have been through anything like this, that it is going to be ok, and jus the best way to get over what he has done to me. I just need advice from other woman or men who have been abandoned basically.
 i just want to be happy and not feel this intense sense of anxiety like he is going to hurt us more..
  thanks for your time =]