I am a 21 yr old who has undergone schooling in a military school and i have a repeated child homosexual abuse history(2001-2002). I have been away from home into military training and atmsphere since I was 12. I never opened up about it to anyone. In 2001 and 2002 i had few epileptic attacks and they were tested thoroughly and nothing came out. An eeg of that time showed something that the doctor called dissociative pattern but it was rubbished as i was too young(12)and retests showed everything normal. I barely have any memories of that time and i feel numb when i recall. Period of 2001 to 2003, i was more than despised by everyone because i wasnt physically as sound as others, with no friends literally but for music and books. I am an absolute introvert. I am afraid but i developed an affinity for homosexuality which I despised. Though I like women, I find it impossible to fascinate of them when it comes to masturbation. Over the years I experienced incidents when i lost control of myself and attacked people physically and verbally beyond critiical reasoning.  But i continued my training to the point that i was to get a commission in 2008. Just before my commission I was dismissed when i kept junior cadets standing under the shower all night long and supposedly attacking them furiously which I never recollect having done. Other people also supported that I had a tendency of forgetting things. I was sent for psychiatric investigation where nothing substantial was found. I was diagnosed with Impulsive Control Disorder. My Scans and eeg are clear and rosarch test shows high impulsive traits. MMPI shows high point schizophrenia, Depression, Hypothalmia. I was discharged as fit and the disciplinary committee accused me of feigning disease. I was dismissed with disgrace. Eversince then i have had suicidal thoughts, depression, regular bowel problems and a back pain with no medical diagnosis, i forget things, isolate myself, find difficult to concentrate, and break down in to tears with little control or warning. I m in a mess and i am dead scared of going to a doc. I dont  know what to do and i dont find myself crazy. please guide me as to what is going wrong with me. I hate homosexual feelings and i feel desperate to get rid of them. I think my depression is becoming clinical and i have become so paranoid that i have started spying on people close to me. i am loosing my sleep pattern. At times I sleep for hours in day and at times dont feel like sleeping at night. PLease guide I am dying very slowly.