Hi everyone, I've been thinking for a while if I should post anything on here or not because I guess I'm afraid to admit I know I have a problem. I'm a fifteen year old girl who has a good amount of friends in school, does sports, and tries to keep my academics up. I don't have any problems that would make me feel this way- my parents are just like any other, though my mom and I occasionally get into some pretty heated fights. The thing is, I believe I'm depressed but I don't want to admit it or get help because I'm afraid of what everyone will think. For a little over a year now I have been feeling utterly sad and worthless, especially at night. I sometimes cry myself to sleep for no reason, my appetite has somewhat lessened, and I have a hard time falling asleep but when I finally do I have a hard time waking up. I've found myself having unneeded anger towards little things, and random outbursts that have caused my moms relationship with me to take a step back a little to say in words. I have had thoughts of suicide, about committing it but NEVER attempting it because I'm to scared to actually do it and I know I still would never be able to no matter how bad it gets. Just like I always have thoughts now about hurting myself: like breaking a bone, getting into a car crash, or anything that could put me in the hospital. I know it's wrong, to have thoughts like that. It's selfish and uncalled for- but then why do I have them? I have actually hurt myself before causing multiple doctors visits, but never told anyone it was on purpose. "It was an accident or I don't know how it happened" I would always say. Just to get attention. That's always what I want and when I think about it always I feel so selfish and stupid that I think even lower of myself. I just really don't know what to do anymore, I'm tired of feeling nothing and just hopeless like I'll never amount to anything in this world. So please, I need advice on what I should do because I just do not know anymore. But knowing me I won't follow it- this depression or whatever I have will always keep getting worse. I'm afraid of that the most, that this thing in the end will be the death of me. What should I do?