Hi, I am 30 years male. I always had some kind of problems from my childhood and i consult a psychologist after then a psychiatrist at the age of 18-20 [i cannot recall the exact year]. I easily forget and i am unable to understand what is happening with me, like what is real and what is unreal. I used to think i have extra ordinary powers, like i can fly, some kind of power releasing from my eyes or body and a problem staring eyes. I stared at a woman in a feast at a church, i was unable to take my eyes from her, my brain was so free-zed and some friends pushed me to get away from that place. I saw a flash light when i close and open my eyes, like when we take picture using a camera. I was unable to move my body, unable to move my legs or hands to get away my eyes from her. I was cursed for that, nobody understood what was happening with me. I was staring at all woman and suddenly i heard a voice asking me to suicide. I wanted to jump in front of train and suicide but somehow i reach a meditation center, i spent few days there. I felt like i am St.George and i still have many thoughts like that. After a few days i start to stare at both woman and men, i stare at legs, i still cant help myself, so i don't appear in any public places. I tried to wear sunglasses but nothing helped me. I always hear people talking to me, i see them like i watching a movie, i talk to them continuously all day and night. I had frightening dreams while taking pills. Some times they curse me and ask me to suicide. I consult another doctor and he said it is something F20 psychosis. What is it? Is it anything related to schizophrenia? I am still having the problem for last 10 or more years, hearing voices of people, i see them, staring problem and also i see objects that are not really there. Like i see someone standing in a place but when i ask to my friends if you see him, they say they don't see it. l was unable to continue my education because i was unable to concentrate when i hear people talking to me, asking me to run out from the class rooms, also staring at people to their private parts or legs was a big problem as society doesn't accept it and many stay away from me. I was alone and i was isolated, i am working from home for a living, i am unable to understand whats happening with me, what is real and what is unreal. At present i am taking Sizodon LS before i took Palido Od 6 [paliperidone extended tablets]. Also, i took many other medicines, but nothing is helping me. Can anyone help me to know whats happening with my eyes? Is it anything related to schizophrenia? What is psychosis F20? Kindly help me, thanks.