Ok here is what I believe that my problem is… I’ve had a best friend/sister for over 20 years and for the first 10 I didn’t realize that she was mentally ill I just thought she had mood swings and was a habitual liar.   Being from an abusive past myself (the type of person I was is  shy quiet and I would hide from ppl-- withdrawn) And now ten years  ago It was explained to me that she is did/mpd  and if you ask me I think she ocd to. I know she cannot help it being sick. But with all these different ppl living within her most are my friends anyway some are not and some I could do without but I love her unconditionally she is my sister after all.(no blood relations though). And to be honest now I’m not certain if I was manipulated into doing everything and giving everything I possibly can to help her or if she truly does not comprehend  that  most of my life and time are dedicated to solely making her happy and comfortable ( I will not be leaving her behind she is not only mentally ill but  physically ill and it is incurable and continually in pain night and day which in my estimation (as some one who doesn’t specialize in psychiatry but have read a lot) the trauma from the disorder is causing her alter problems to increase. I am not married and have been friends with her since I was 15 ( who had similar issues in child hood as her although I was not beaten  I was sexually mentally and verbally abused  and raped) and the control some of her alters place over me is  a little much but I try so hard to understand. Some alters say I want you to be happy and find someone where others say you don’t need this person they are (fill in the blank anything that would be a stay away from ppl thought) and her protectors think they need to protect me to and also some that say no one will have you.. Looking back over the years I now realize that within the first year an alter said to me that they liked me very much and didn’t think they liked anyone else coming between there time with me they wanted me all to themselves and naturally being young and from an abusive past I didn’t notice the effects of this statement beyond flattery she has many alters that are very accurately psychic where others are not. And I am not that intelligent.  Its just the stress and the fact I feel hopeless and confused she may die within the next year or by some miracle be healed. But to be honest im depressed pissed off confused how do I deal with all this pent up aggression inside. Its not all bad we have some really great times and depressing times too but all in all its normal but with 50 or more best friends its difficult… figures the one (me) that don’t want to be around anyone would have all these friends sharing one body.. its traumatic really but I survive. What I cannot stand is my own aggressive depressive nature. I don’t want to walk around ready to slap someone if they cross me . that is just not good ya know.