My 16 yr. old daughter's behavior of lying, defiance and rebellion has progressively grown worse over the past 3 years. We have been going to counseling the past few months, things seemed to be improving.  This past month we had an episode that escalated into a physical altercation between my daughter and her father.  He slapped her on the side of her head and a few seconds later she sat down on the ground and then lay down. (She did not fall)  She has done this in the past in public where she will sit down when she is not getting her way.  She has also had blackouts when our arguments have gotten heated at home and she is acting out.  She will then go limp for a few seconds and then she is calm and remorseful. 
 This most recent incident, we were unable to get her to respond.  We had to get help to put her in our van.  I took her straight to the ER, thinking she was “faking” or on drugs.  After about 2 hours and a blood test and CT, she was still out.  She was admitted to the PICU and had an MRI and EEG.  All of the results were good and normal except the EEG. 
 After a visit with her neurologist, we were told she has a seizure disorder.  Her seizures are not noticeable to someone looking at her, they are not normal epilepsy.  She has significant spikes in the left temporal lobe.  The neurologist put her on anti-seizure medication.  The next week she went to camp and ended up punching a girl. 
 This past week, she was mad at someone and at the same time, disobeyed me and I grounded her.  She went into a complete rage.  When I went to talk to her and tell her that her behavior was unacceptable, she was still crazy.  She came after me with a pair of scissors and my husband had to restrain her until the police got here.  While restrained, she was screaming so loud and would not stop.  The police came and handcuffed her until the EMT’s came.  She was once again unresponsive and in a coma state.  They took her to the ER and she was out this time for 5 hours.   
 Each time, her heart rate was way above normal and she did not (could not) respond.  The EMT’s thought she was overdosing.  Once again, all tests good and normal. 
 She is now at an inpatient facility and the only answers I continue to get is that she is throwing temper tantrums and is very good at controlling herself and acting.  I have a hard time believing this.  Any other possibilities? 
 ** She has also gone through an eating disorder and cutting herself phase, neither of which were extreme cases. I took her to her doctor on both occasions and she felt like it was nothing to be concerned about.  She was still very healthy and the cuts were only surface, more like scratchs. Maybe for attention or because her friends did it and it was the "in" thing to do. **