My child does not care to have friends or a teen social life. I think she has social anxiety possible she hates going to school tells me whatever she can think of why it is not a safe enviroment . she says she gets picked on they cal her names etc.. she may have 1 or 2 friends that she talks to sometimes but really could care less .She fights with every friend she has most likely only  a short period of time then they dont talk again.  All she wants to do is stay home hang out with us which is fine but there has to be a limit line. She either watch's TV or plays Xbox . It seems once there is more there 1 friend at a time she wants to go home  or she argues with the and tells me they were mean to her .  She hates school she would be sick all the time before school with her stomache aches so I kept bringing her  to the dr's then finally to a acounselor and psychiatrist there oppinion was anxiety due to when she was younger she had gone through some stuff with her bio dad that she has nothing to do with at her choice now. He was emotional and sometimes physically abusive I left him while she was  7 for good . besides every year before that as well then kept going back it was a cycle that ended. She says she is like this beacuse of her horible childhood with her bio dad. I tell her that was a long time ago and she needs to move on. She does not want to have friends and says she thinks theytalk about her, she does not get a long with any other teen. She always says they are not her type or they smoke or drink so I dont want to hang out with them which is great that she is telling me that but the question is ? Is it true or just an excuse to back off of her not having friends. She says she likes being by herself .. could this be normal ? I have even gone online to teen forums in the area to setup her up accounts to try and find her friends and get her to talk to them but it only seems like I am the only one writing to them she says to stop running her life I am not her and she dont want friends . I do feel very awkward but have no idea on how to get her friends and  not fight with everyone  .She says nobody likes her and thats why she talked me in to signing her up for a homeschool which she starts this coming year but now having second thoughts about her socialism that this would be the right thing to do or will it make matters worse? . To make matters worse she is now  giving me a hard time about joining a youth group or anything outside activity . she does not like anyiihng or anyone. She is not very nice to other teens which is very embarrassing . The psychologist wanted to give her depression meds but I am not into that. So what now am I wrong for trying to get her connected with kids in this area to be friends . I feel like really weird going to this extreme please advise me on this situation. just thought it would help to break theice with these other teens. please any advice is helpful .. I have had her in counseling but it never seems to help she plain out does not want friends nor go to school but only to homeschool online at age 14  staying isolated at home since we work all day.. is this normal to be so isolated ? She has not had her monthly but this has been going on since she was younger it is not something new going on. Ithought she would grow out of it or something.   
Thank you