First of all, I want to say that I know that what I read here doesn't replace an official diagnosis. But while I'm waiting to hear back from my doctor, I'm wondering if anyone can help me sort out and understand these test results. I think I'm causing myself a great deal of anxiety by trying to be patient and wait to hear from my doctor. (I'm not a patient patient :)
 A little bit of background - I am a 37 year old mother of three young children. Around a year ago, I started getting a really bad itch. It's so bad sometimes that I draw blood from scratching so hard to try to satiate the itch. I wondered if I had something wrong with my kidneys that was causing it, as I kept getting kidney stones. So I chalked it up to that and carried on. I've been really fatigued, but my doctor just laughs at me and says it's because i have three small kids. But this is so bad it's like all I want to do is sleep. I'm so EXHAUSTED all of the time. And I'm not up with my baby through the night, so it doesn't make sense. And I've also had night sweats. Not completely drenching, but enough that they'll wake me up and I'm wet all over and have to take my covers off. We bought a supposedly "cooling" mattress topper, but it's actually only made it worse. I sleep with two fans on my face. My doctor says this is because I'm going through menopause (I had a total hysterectomy and oophorectomy one year ago which put me into surgical menopause) so that was basically dismissed, too.
 I have not been sick at all except for a hacking cough the last nine weeks. But it's a cough without other sickness symptoms. No fever, no runny nose, etc. 
 Four weeks ago, I noticed a lump behind my left ear. It was pretty tiny and didn't hurt to touch it. But sometimes I'd notice headaches originating from that spot. Two weeks ago, it had doubled in size so I went to my doctor about it. It's rock hard - feels like part of my skull - like an immovable marble under my skin. I didn't even feel it when she touched it so it's not painful at all. She thought it was a cyst so she had an ultrasound ordered. Even though it's not painful to touch, I have had a dull headache ever since the ultrasound technician rubbed that wand over and over it. I just got back the results of my ultrasound today. The results confirm that it is a lymph node between 4 and 6 millimeters  big.
 "The palpable abnormality described by the patient in the 
left postauricular region corresponds to a solid reniform nodule 
measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm.  There is internal vascularity.  
Findings are compatible with a subcutaneous lymph node."
 Can anyone explain to me what "reniform" means and what it means to have "internal vascularity?" 
 I'm nervous about lymphoma because of the other symptoms I've had and because this lump is so rock solid. There is no family history of lymphoma (that we know of - my dad was adopted and we don't know any medical history of his birth family), but both of my parents have had cancer, so it's something that I've always worried about. I also have a very good friend who was recently diagnosed with non-hodgkin lymphoma. So that's obviously on my mind as I'm going through all of this. 
 I've called the doctor's office and left a message and I also sent her an email, but haven't heard back from her yet. I want to assume that no news is good news and that if it was bad/life changing she would have called me to discuss the results. But while I"m waiting to hear from her, I thought I'd jump on here and see if anyone can just help me understand the ultrasound results and hopefully put my mind at ease.
 Thank you so much!