Sorry this is long but I just want to state every fact.Ok i got this long time friend who quite recently started exhibiting some very strange and worrisome psychological symptoms.It started at the beginning of last year when we as a group of friends  went away for a little holiday, this friend of mine was 100% normal,happy making jokes like always,until we went to to a bar the saterday night.At first he was normal and like a switch he went the complete oposite, he had this dull facail expresion, didnt say a word and just stared at the wall and when we ask him a question he would either whisper something softly or not anwser us at all.When we finnished there and walked to the car we realised he wasnt there with us  and when I went in to look for him he just sat there at the same spot staring at the wall when I told him we are leaving ,he walked out with me we got home and he went straight to hes room and locked the door for the rest of the night. Next day he finally came out of hes room in the middle of the afternoon all happy like if nothing happend, and when I asked him what was wrong he just said he felt a bit off  which was strange for me cause i never seen someone doing that when they feel off. But during the year he started doing really strange things, he started stealing from all of us and completely denies it evan though we found the stolen items in hes room like cellphones wallets ect. He will just say he cant remember taking it.He compolsively  lies to all us about every little thing. One night I went to visit him and hes roomate at their apartment and hes roomate deciced to invite two girls over they came over, we all started having a good time and suddenly my friend came out of the kitchen with a plate full of cracker with kathup and yogart on it. We all politely said no thanks and after that he went and stood infront of the mirror in the hallway and threw the crackers one by one againat the mirror and went and locked him self in hes room again and just refused to anwser us when we asked if hes ok.Hes been asked to leave several parties because he makes inapropriate sexual comments towards girls and obviously made them feel very uncomfortable, he vandalises peoples property like he ripped the rim off one of my friends car wheel and broke it for absolutley no reason and thats just one example and their are man and for that alot of people have distant their self from him. If we go clubbing he gets completely hammerd and starts embarising him self  and us to no end like we will just stand in the middle of the crowd enjoying our selfs and he will just tell some random girl if she would sleep with me cause i told him to ask her which ive never done or he will say lets gets shots hes paying then we will all follow him to the bar he will order this huge amount of shots and just before it come he will tell us he just has to go to the bathroom and juat disipear and leave us with the bill. Last year for absolutley no reason he just completely avoided us all he deleted us from facebook didnt awnser my calls when i called him at hes home just to find out what i done to him to write us off for no reason,he answered heard it was me and he just hung up. So I decided to not bother anymore and never to contact him again and just last week he text me for the first time in 3months cussing me and telling me what a horrible   person I am for writing him off when all I did was try and be understanding over what was wrong and when I tried to call him again he just rejectes my calls.Im trying to be a good friend because all my friends where there for me when I went threw a difficult time but im starting to give up and it hurts me.He refuses to seek any professional help or admit something is wrong. Is this a type of bpd??? or something else but one things for sure this is no where near normal hes never been like this before. ps. Sorry for the spelling errors I dont usually spell like thisIm just typing fast on a Ipad and it refuses me to go back to correct my spelling.