I don't know where to begin...I think I already know the answer but I need to hear it for myself.
My husband of 4 years has changed from the sweetest, most kind guy you could meet.  We have two children, 2 and 3 and my 17 year old daughter.  Things started with my daughter at first.  He had some anger outbursts at her about things like putting the dryer on the wrong setting.  Finally she couldn;t take it and moved to my parents home.  He disowned his family and will not speak to any of them.  When I had the other children, he started to change towards me.  I was a professional, working full-time and making a good salary with flexible work schedule.  My Mother babsat for us and was always so good to the children.  He would make rude comments about my Mother babysitting and how he hates the fact that she has been in our house.  Silly things like the chairs aren't placed around the table the right way and how she ties up the garbage and sits it beside the cupboard.  He hounded me to quit my job and I can't believe I did it but I did!!  Now he calls me down to the lowest, telling me I'm fat, lazy, i have breath like a horse and so on.  He goes weeks and even months giving me the silent treatment.  He is nice to the kids, but will use them to say things to me like Mommy you stink like a skunk, and grose Mommy you have moles on your back.  Before Christmas I had surgery and he wasn;t speaking, he took me to the hospital but said nothing when I went into surgery.  Around Christmas he didn't put his paycheck in the bank to make me sweat it out for a couple of weeks about paying the bills!  He has made comments about how he thinks I'm picking my 17 year old daughter up at school and he says if i am he'll sell the vehicle!!  i can't believe this because this was my house, I had my own vehicle, all the furnishings and I welcomed him into my life.  It is such a change...was he just on his best behaviour before, did he change and is it due to a brain tumour or something??  Does he have some sort of sociapathic personality???  I don;t see any caring or love towards me at all.  Is he just plain abusive??  At Christmas he was so enraged about my daughter bringing a CD to the house that he got so mad he grabbed me by the arms and I told him it was abuse and to never touch me again.  This is wearing me out...How do you help someone that refuses to even talk to you???  I can't even talk civil about leaving as he won't speak!!  He has said before he will never go to counselling!  Can he be helped?? I feeI I am losing my mind and don;t know if I'm strong enough end it or stay.  
p.s. he checks the oone numbers on the phone, looks for tire tracks in the yard, and now hooked up a hidden cordless phone above the air exchnager in the basement.  Is he using reverse physcology to get me to make the desicion to end it?????