I don't really know what's wrong with me, Can someone help me? All I know is that it's something in my head.
It started on the 15th June 2012, when my cousin died. The first six months or so I thought were normal, I was grieving. But after that, it didn't seem normal, it felt like it had moved up a level. It seemed something else. I was self-harming, having suicidal thoughts. I hated myself and everything around me. I didn't want to live and I thought I was worthless and there  was no point in me being here. I stopped self harming February 2013 and I haven't since, but there's been so many times I've wanted to relapse. 
And now, I just can't seem to control how I feel. I just keep crying all the time and I feel so sad and paranoid. When I lay in bed I feel really small, like im engulfed. I've felt sad for too long, I've felt exactly the same since my cousin died. It's not grief anymore. 
 I want to self harm again as I want to be able to have control over my pain, but I dont want to relapse. I cant start again. 
I feel like I have a lump in my throat and a hole in my heart. I constantly need distractions to stop myself thinking otherwise I just sit there and think and cry. I feel people never understand me. That no one else has gone through or is going through this even though I know they are. I don't want to go to the doctors because I don't want to be diagnosed as mentally ill. 
But I know I need to. Im scared of what's going on in my head, I'm scared over the lack of control. 
 I cant seem to get rid of this lump in my throat. I seem to be living constantly in fear that something bad is going to happen. I get paranoid if my nan or grandad ring my mum or if my boyfriend goes out somewhere. I'm terrified that he's going to find someone better than me, someone who isn't scared of what's going on in their head, someone who isn't an ex-suicidal self-harmer. Someone who won't cry for seemingly no reason. 
I don't want to be that person. I don't want to be the person who has something mentally wrong with them. 
  I feel like I have something in my throat thats suffocating me, like a grip thats getting tighter and tighter.
 My mood just changes so much. It's just like one minute ill be numb and I won't feel anything and the next ill be crying my eyes out.