I started dating my husband about 6 1/2 years ago. I love his mom and his brother, a lot. His dad on the other hand I am not a big fan of. 
He has been making me his doormat most of the time. I think that deep down it may have something to do with the fact that I am from a snotty, rich area of town. He was engaged to some girl from the same town, before he met his wife. 
He is always saying awful things about my friends to my face. Making remarks to hurt my feelings no matter how much I ask him to stop. He has made me cry countless hundreds of times. 
When Erik and I used to fight he would get involved.  I used to wonder why he would get involved. He would always side with Erik. 
Once I was in the kitchen with him, and his wife came home. He very rudely asked me to move seats, so his wife could sit where I had sat for the last 3 hours, I used to live with my husband's family before we got married. I picked up my homework, and ran to Erik's and my room. I didn't come out until Erik got home. He could have asked me nicely, but didn't. 
I have trouble with milk and I was peacefullly enjoying my cereal and he made some stupid remark about my being able to use soy milk and not milk. Seriously how mean do you need to be?
After I nearly died in July of 2009, and had very serious surgery, and had to miss a concert he paid for he accused me of wasting his money. It really hurt that that mattered more to him. 
It was soon after this that he did what I considered to be the most hurtful thing he has ever done. He removed me from his facebook friends. He left one of my husband's other friends he barely knew. Right when I needed support he threw me to the wolves. I was in pain and scared for my life, and this is how he treated me.
Even when Erik and I got into a fight and the police got involved. Erik and I were not allowed to see each other for several days. He wad still rude to me. At first he called me every few hours to see if I was ok. When he came to see is, he spent about 30 mins with me and decided that I didn't matter so  he left. Did sat he made me feel worse, because he did. 
Why can't he just be nice to me?  My feelings are always being hurt by him.  I keep forgiving him, but he always makes me upset again.  I have talked to Erik about this, and he has talked to his dad, but it does NOTHING.