First I will start with a disclaimer. I have never killed anyone. You might find this strange but you will understand as you read on.
I am 46. When I was young signs of my psychotic behavior were quite evident to me. When I got angry I hurt people. I opened one kids head with a soda can when he said something that made me feel cornered (he was my best friend). A few years later I opened another kids head with a table tennis racket because he wanted to cut in line. Not to mention the abuse I put my younger brother through if he ever beat me at a sport or board game. When I was 12 my parents divorced which created a new type of anger in me. I nearly chocked a kid to death in high school because he was picking on my brother and finally a third anger emerged when I was sent on my own to join university at 16 many thousands of miles away. I felt abandoned and scared.
In university, the three angers created a perfect storm and I was having vivid fantasies of killing women in a very terrible way. it was not just killing but with large amounts of torture thrown in for a sick sexual fantasy of rape and death. This culminated one day in me actually looking for a victim. I came to my senses in time and through self medication (LSD and meditation) and my own moral compass, the fantasies subsided and disappeared. The anger however did not and remained bottled up inside were it explodes to the surface every once in a while with usually disastrous results. Discovering alcohol made me a mean drunk ready to fight at a drop of a pin. Broke my hand 4 times punching people, walls and anything else to release my anger. Once I graduated, I got a very fulfilling job and life was good for a while. Now I have been married for 13 years and have 3 children. My wife is extremely jealous and has here own issues of fear and anger which unfortunately she directs at me. The problems started after I was out of a job for nearly a year and after one big fight (verbal) I went to see a psychiatrist. he diagnosed me as a controlled psychotic (don't know if there is any such thing) but it seemed to fit the bill. I don't want to seem that I am blaming my wife but her fear and jealousy started to resurface the anger and one day I just exploded and beat her (nothing requiring medical attention) but a lot of bruises and a gate was opened. As life got harder and her accusations of infidelity increased (none of which were true) my anger had reached epic limits. I beat her again today (not the second time) but she is an in your face, loud and opinionated and she doesn't know when to shut up even after I tell her. So your comments are welcome hope I haven't freaked anyone too much.