Hi everyone. 
I posted many months back about my boyfriend who was aroused by his mother. No one on this site believed my post, thinking it was way too taboo. I ended up with solid evidence. I will elaborate later. Following the advice of many here, what seemed like guidance from my prayers, and the advice of a relationship therapist, I ended my relationship with that man. Long story short, I found out before I ended it that he was actually sexually involved with his mother, he broke that off, with my being on the phone to witness it, and she went crazy, bashing me all over social media and to his family. I finally ended it. 
ANYWAYS! Due to this traumatic experience I am now obsessed. I can't date any guy with out suspecting that he is in an incestuous relationship with his mother from the beginning. I have nightmares every night about this horror between my ex and his mother. I find myself trolling the internet in my free time to find out how many other people in the world do these sorts of things. Throughout these things I find my stomach turning. I only ate lunch for the weeks after I found out the truth about my ex and his mother. Now, my stomach still turns, but it's now more than feeling sick to the stomach; I feel sick in the mind. I don't know where to go to be cured of this. I'm sick of myself and this sickness. It honestly hinders my daily life and love life. I used to read scientific news articles (I love anything science/medical). Now I read articles of these things by people who have experienced this and find myself constantly sharing my experience with friends, family, suitors, and online forums. 
Where can I go to properly cure myself of this ailment? How can I deal with this healthily?
You guys, I'm hurting. Really. I never even mourned the relationship ending; I just had this sick feeling about it for months because when I texted his mother about their disgusting relationship after the break-up, she only justified it. I still have it. How can I deal with this healthily?
 (Here is the backstory: I first discovered they were nude around each other constantly. Then he told me he was aroused by seeing her naked. Later I told him that if we were to stay together, they couldn't see each other naked anymore because it made me uncomfortable. He said ok. He decided to tell her not to walk around naked anymore. I told him it wouldn't be enough for me. I needed to be there when he told her. I needed proof. He said he didn't want me to be there because it would be awkward. So he put me on the phone and put his cell phone in his pocket while he spoke with her. I heard the conversation. He said, "Mom, we can't see each other naked anymore. It's weird. All my friends think it's weird; now I think it's weird. I'm a grown man." She said, "It's weird now? You didn't have a problem with it when I was [here I am sugar-coating for sake of this being a friendly forum--] giving you oral sex. But ok. Whatever boo. I know you have a girlfriend now and all that bs. But it ain't nobody's business what we do in our house." (She texted me this same line when I confronted her through text about it. "Where did he say we did all our business though? In my house. So it ain't your business what we do in my house.") Minutes later she entered his room (I was still on the phone) and said, "If this is about you thinking I go to that swingers club with your dad and have sex with a bunch of men, that's not how it happens. I don't do anything with them. I just watch your dad get s***ed and f***ed by those young [women]. And no I'm not eff-ing Gene. He's just my good friend. So I hope all this isn't about him and those swingers clubs.")
 I just want to know how can I get rid of this baggage. I'm traumatized. Truly traumatized. Please help.