Hi everyone. Sorry, this is kind of long but please bear with me if you can. I really want to figure out what my problem is here. 
        My name is Chris, and I'm 24 years old. I have never been on any medications, I don't smoke or do drugs, I occasionally drink, and my diet is about average. I am 5'11, 200 lbs. I try to keep physically active and I am slightly overweight (34 waist). My fathers side of the family has a lengthy history of heart disease and all of my uncles and my grandparents on that side passed away in their 50's. My aunts have all had heart attacks (One at age 38). My mother's side of the family is predisposed to being overweight, but they are healthy.
        I've been having problems over the past few years. I had a fainting episode in the summer of 07' and ever since then I constantly feel tired, weak, and lethargic. When I am at work (Where there are no windows or air circulation) the symptoms are exacerbated. Sometimes I will get the dots in my eyes and buckled knees like I am going to pass out even though I haven't yet. This is a major interference in my life and causes difficulty in concentration school and daily life, keeping active, and even getting up in the morning. In the past 6 or so months, I have had chronic diarrhea. At times, my heart feels like it is beating faster than normal (When I am at rest), sometimes I have shortness of breath (at rest) and very infrequently I have mild chest pain. All of this I have gotten used to, but it is still a major hindrance in my life.
        I went to one doctor about a year ago who only came up with the Epstein Barr Virus in my blood work. This past week I went to a different doctor who gave me a routine physical and ran blood work. (Which for certain I know checked for anemia and HIV, what else I do not know) I was told that the blood work came out "excellent". I went back to the doctor because some of my symptoms matched that of arrhythmia. The doctor checked my heart with a stethoscope for a good 5 minutes and said my valve function and everything sounded normal. I then got an EKG and was told that everything was normal. The only advice the doctor(s) offered was that I had a stress related disorder and recommended I forgo medication and instead see a counselor.
        Now, I am at a loss here. I always have this headache, tiredness, and diarrhea. It is constant and never goes away. While I do experience anxiety, it is there whether I feel anxious or not. It's so chronic, I can't remember the last time I felt normal. Are these symptoms indicative of anything else, or do you guys think that this may be stress causing the problem? I did have a high amount of stress from a toxic relationship, my father passing away, and my normal work and school responsibilities about a year back (The stress from the relationship lasted a long time). Any advice?