i'm a 48 yr.old male. ive been married for 30 years. when i first got married we lived with our in-laws. my father in law was gone weeks at a time on business. i always got along great with my mother in law. the problem is this: when we first moved in, my MIL was always affectionate person. but then it seemed it was more. she was always brushing up against me. for example: i was eating at the table one night by myself and she reached for something at the table and brushed her breasts against my face. which i thought at first was an accident, but then i notice she was always staring at my stuff, and it was usually when my FIL was gone after a week. then we would joke around with each other and that led to tickling and hand play wrestling. and then one day she grabbed my crotch. but said quickly "oops, sorry grabbed wrong leg". and from there there was always accidently touching. she would wear loose night gowns, with no bra and would bend over in front of me when cleaning up around the house. but she never did this around my wife. well, after awhile i started playing around with her. which led to me when we were alone to go behind her and massage her shoulders while i pressed up against her behind. we finally moved out after a few months. but anytime i went over for some reason and she was alone, i would always go behind her when she was standing at sink and press up against her. I never grabbed at her or anything like that. It never went any further. After a few years, she tried to avoid be alone with me. but still everytime i was around her, i was aroused. well after a few years i started to grab her butt, jokely, i knew she didnt like it, but she never said anything. one summer she to stay with us for a couple of weeks, my wife worked all day, and i would come home for lunch and my MIL was always alone. it got to point where i would come home, put on my thin warm ups and put on a condom and start joking with my MIL where i knew we would start wrestling around. she never said anything, so i would tickle her and get behind her and press against her till i climaxed. that went on almost every day, BUT she never said anything. AND it never went further than that. there was never any out right sex. but after a few years i knew she really wasnt liking it but she never said anything. this when on for about 10 to 12 years. until one day i went to her house one morning to pick something for my wife. my MIL was in the kitchen washing dishes. i went behind her and started tickling her and slipped my hand under her shirt and she didnt have a bra on.  she backed me off and told she didnt want to play around like that anymore. and that was the day it stopped. We still get along very well, but never said anything to anyone about it all those years. The problem is im started to feel guilty about all those years and have considered telling my wife about it.  i dont know what to do? im trying to re direct my life and want to come clean about it. but i dont know if it would help anyone but me to satisfy my guilt.
I'm i being selfish just so i wont be guilty or does my wife deserve to know???