Hi! I am a 22 year old female and ever since elementary school I have been prescribed adderall and prozac. Four years ago I stopped taking the prozac when I went off to college because I felt like I did not need it. Everything was fine except for my sexual disfunction continued. I have a strong desire to have sex and I do have sex often, and, forgive me for being graphic, I get really wet. The only thing is I feel virtually nothing down there during sex or masturbation. When I guy touches me, its feels the same as if he touched my arm. When I masturbate I feel the SLIGHTEST tingle.  I researched a bit and I have come to the conclusion that this is a result of the prozac (the whole post ssri sexual dysfunction thing). I am not depressed but I REALLY want to fix the sexual dysfunction problem. 
 The other thing is my ADD.  I am prescribed Adderall and that works great for keeping me focused. The only thing is I cant get to the point that I need to get focused. I procrastinate to an extreme and it has become unhealthy.  I get, on average, 0 to 2 nights of sleep every school night. This is because I literally do not start doing my homework until 3 or 4 in the morning. All day I will sit at my desk or at the library but I can not focus on it. I will do everything but: ill take walks around campus, play on my phone, google random things, just stare at a blank page, day dream. I have even gone as far as take the TV out of my room but it is no help.  This is even after I have taken adderall. This has got to stop! I am getting wrinkles because of my lack of sleep! (To clarify, I can fall asleep fine when I want to. Its just that I have no time to sleep because I procrastinate my homework for so long).
 I just graduated from undergrad and I am in a grad program now. This procrastination thing was not an issue my first three years of undergrad but it a problem my fourth year. (I have NO idea why). My doctors solution was to put me on a higher dose of Adderall but all that did was enable me to procrastinate even longer because I can stay up all night. (I am 5'2, 120 pounds and take 30 mg extended release and 2 15mg regular release). 
 One more thing, unlike depression I FOR SURE have ADD. My life is miserable without the adderall. My brain goes a million miles a minuet and I cant sit still and or focus on or comprehend what anyone is saying for more than a minuet.  
 Does anyone have any solution to my sexual dysfunction or procrastination problems? Are they related? Would a different ADD medicine be more effective? 
 Thanks so much for your help. You have no idea how much I appreciate it. I am really struggling!