I'm going to try to make a long story short...wish me luck.  I was married for 9 years.  We had been together for 5 years prior to getting married.  About 4 years into our married my parents took a turn and I had to go out of town for two months to get them set up in a nursing home (mom with alzheimers) and assisted living (dad).  When I got back home my then husband suggested I check out facilities in the town we lived in so they would be close and so I could be more involved in their care.  I did just that.  It was not easy.  My dad was not happy that I brought them out here and my mom started having severe behavior issues.  My husband owned his own business and during that period of time he had a really big job that put alot of stress on him...or so he said.  Because of that I could not lean on him when I had the stress of the nursing home/assisted living calling me with problems.  When that job ended he took off for Mexico to go fishing (he had his boat down there).  It ended up that he was gone more than he was home.  I "knew" something was going on, but because I had my parents issues to handle AND work a full time job, I just couldn't and didn't try to get to the bottom of it.  My mom passed away and a year later my dad followed.  By this time I had had it with my husband.  He had not once gone to visit them, he was no support for me, and if I even tried to talk to him about anything I was told to stop stressing him out.  When my dad died my husband was in Mexico.  He called that day because it was also my birthday..I told him dad had died and he said he'd come back home.....well - 5 days later he finally showed up.  I was done.  I told him I wanted a divorce, that I knew he was in Mexico for other than "fishing".  He told me he loved me and didn't want a divorce.  Because I was so emotional and also worn out from the prior 3 years I did not bring it up anymore.  Well, nothing changed.  He was in Mexico 200 days of the following year (I kept a calendar).  Then I started seeing charges appear on credit cards (by accident when he would leave the statements sitting on the counter....because we had separate credit cards) - but I started seeing charges for childrens clothing etc.  I confronted him and he told me I was crazy.   We eventually did get a divorce..amicable...we went to a paralegal and it was over in 30 days.  He said we would always remain friends and he actually wanted me to continue to live with him.  I did not.  In fact he was once again gone for almost a month when the final decree went thru.  I had been slowly packing my belongings and taking them to the house I was going to live in.  He came home from Mexico and saw stuff was gone and threw a tantrum....then threw me out of "his" house...I left no problem.  The next day he came over to "help" me with stuff.  Even kissed me goodnight.  
Then a couple weeks later I started communicating with an old boyfriend from high school.  We lived about 400 miles apart.  Well the ex found out and again threw a fit telling everyone that was why we got divorced...because I had a boyfriend...  How the heck did he have the nerve to say that...SINCE his child was born in Mexico on - ready for this?  My birthday...the same day my dad died...which was why he didn't get back for 5 days.  At that point we ended all contact.  And we never spoke or crossed paths again.
 Last month there was an accident on one of his job sites and an employee was killed.  I heard it on the evening news.  I actually thought it was him (because they said a 54 year old man - and I saw his equipment, truck etc on the news) but then I saw him and I let out a sigh of relief.  I was so upset I started crying!  And all I did was think of him and how he was handling it etc.  2 weeks later I texted him just to give my support.  4 days later he texted back thanking me etc.  Then his niece stopped by to see me and told me I was the only person he responded to! 
 I know I said I would try to be short - sorry...But the thing is now I can't stop thinking about him.  I thought I was so over him...but what the heck???
 Oh and just so you know.  I'm not a young girl - I'm in my 60's and he's in his 50's.  I feel to stupid!  He had a girlfriend, had a child with her, denied it, and then got angry when I had a male acquaitence....so why can't I stop thinking about him?