Hi. I'm gonna try and make this quick. My parents have physically and emotionally abused me since I was little. My first memory is of my mom taking me out of my bed when I was about 2 and throwing me all the way across the room, at my dresser. They stopped physically abusing me when I was about 14 (4 years ago). My mom had a slip-up once since then this year but I'm over that. Lately I've been having major flashbacks about the abuse and it's making me ignore all of my negative emotions. Much more relevant: my younger brother has been physically abusing me since I was little but it got reallyyyy bad when I turned 16. He is younger than me but much bigger than me. He'd pin me up against a wall and started punching me when we were home alone and I'd do something he wouldn't like such as sit on a spot on the couch that he wanted (without me knowing prior to him yelling at me). I got help (not from my parents who ignored how my brother was acting towards me, but from my high school). It stopped in May of this year. But what I've noticed is even though he's stopping himself from beating me when he's angry, he still threatens me and controls me. It's as though now, instead of focusing his anger on physically hurting me, he focuses it on making me feel like crap by calling me a bunch of names, belittling me in font of people, and invading my privacy by hacking and searching through my phone. I'm starting to feel paranoid (which is rational considering all that's going on). I'm 18 which means I can legally move out. The issue is I don't have any money and I'm stuck in this city because of university. I can't simply move out because that's not something that kids my age do in my culture. We don't move out till we're married (seriously. I know guys who are 30 and still live at their mom's because it's disrespectful to the family otherwise or something along those lines). I don't know what to do. I've been suicidal since I was 9. Last week I had super strong suicidal urges but I just fought through them like always. But now they're getting worse. I don't trust a single person anymore. I have "friends" but it's more for socializing than anything. I can't deal with the abuse anymore but I also don't know how to escape it. I've went to a therapist, I sought help before, but it led me nowhere. No one gave me any resources, just empathy and words of encouragement (which I'm grateful for but I'm still stuck). When I'm home, no one wants to talk to me. When I try talking about my day or asking them about theirs, they literally ignore me. I don't know what's worse...being ignored or being beaten up.
 Sorry. I guess this ended up being more of a rant than a question, huh? I just really need an out. I need this to stop and I don't know what to do about it anymore. I've tried so hard by asking professionals but they've led me nowhere. I've searched the internet for resources but nothing came up for me. I'm 18 and I'm still stuck in this mess. I want out before I turn 30 and miss out on all the fun years just because of this. I also want to stop thinking that dying is my best option because I know it's not. Please, if you have any ideas as to how I can stop feeling this way and be free of this mess, please let me know.
 I'd like you to know in advance that I appreciate you taking the time to read this and reaching out. Thank you.