Hey im a  17 year old male turning 18 in November. I know as of right now I'm probably fine, but I am concerned a  bit with my behavior. When I walk in the streets I usually think people are gonna hit/stab me or harm me in a way when they walk by me, and if someone is walking behind me or anything I normally look around in other words I am very aware of my surroundings. This doesn't happen all the time though and it seems to happen more when I smoke marijuana. I smoke weed only on weekends never during the week because for me its work before play. Furthermore, i flinch very easily like if someone quickly moves their hand towards me or something I flinch because I think they are going to hit me or something but then again my grandpa also has the same problem so its probably just something that runs in the family. I am also afraid of the dark and I just cant walk through my basement in the dark it always feels like there is someone there watching me or something however, I do sleep in the dark everyday in my room and I usually do man up and go in my basement in the dark but I always need my cell open for some light. Furthermore, when I stare at something it sorta moves like when I stare at it for a while it sorta goes back and forth almost as if it breaths in a way but and when there a light object that beside  a dark object for example at my friends house he has a white door and a black wall and when i stare at both of them at the same time they seem to wiggle/vibrate or something but then again that can just be the contrast in. Sometimes I just sit in my room and stare at things and they sort of move but I know its all in my head.Also, I sometimes see things moving in the side of my eye like a quick light or something but that normally happens when I'm on the computer or something so it can just be because of the light shinning in my eye creating an illusion or something related to that you know what i mean. I also noticed that my body sometimes twitches for example my leg would just move on its own or my hand would just twitch sometimes it even happens to a finger I also have bad memory and concentration but its good enough to get me through life just not as good as I would like it to be and my doctor says the reason for that is because I have ADD which pretty much means I'm extra energetic and that can effect my concentration. That's pretty much it most people I tell this stuff to say its normal and its nothing to be worried about and a lot of these things do run in the family for example my brother is also afraid of the dark so yea... but, other than what I mentioned everything else is fine I am doing good in school maintaining an 80% average, I exercise, spend lots of time with my friends and family in other words I have a good social life, I have good hygiene and I am pretty sure im fine I just want to know what other people think because I am slightly concerned.
 Thank you for your time.