Okay so first i'll give a little background (warning it is very crazy!). 
 So me ex pretty much hasn't been in my girls' lives much since before our oldest turned one (shes now two). I was already pregnant with our second and I can count the number of times he has kept her on one hand. She doesnt know him. The reason we had split up (other than the fact that he was abusing me physically, sexually, and emotionally, thats another story entirely) was because when I was pregnant with our second I found out he had been living a whole seperate life. He had a nother gf AND another baby on the way and that baby was even due BEFORE my daughter. So anyway ever since she has been in the picture things have been worse. They've both been on drugs, they claim they arent anymore but whatever, they fight, the cops are contantly getting called to their house they have both harassed me. One time she even stalked me and tried to bash in my car window while me and my kids were in it! my kids cried for hours and I couldnt get them to eat right for like two days! And then there was another instance where she followed me in my car at noght with her headlights off and rear ended me. (and all this stuff is happening after me and him split up and I wanted nothing to do with him) The cops were called in both instances but every time we went to court they cases were dismissed because they said it was conflict of interest because we both have children with my ex. (which I think is a load of ****). And I could go on forever talking about all the **** they've done but thats not what this post is about.
 To get back on track, my ex hasnt been in my kids' lives. We went to mediation a while back and had it put in paper that she is NOT allowed around the kids and that he can see the kids every weekend at his parents' house (he is currently living with the crazy). He agreed to all of this. He stuck to it maybe two weeks and then one of my daughters came back with multiple bruises on the side of her face which at first he had no explanation for and the later changed and said our other daughter did it. I documented the bruises and took pictures but didnt (which i know regret) go to dss because I didnt think I would have a case. Regardless I didnt let them see him again without supervision and he has done that maybe once. He didn't really care whether he saw them anyway.
 But today he called me to let me know that he got a lawyer and is taking me to court so that my daughters can go to his house that he shares with her.
 I'm so stressed out, do I have any chance of winning this court battle? Will anything I have against them hold up in court? They are horrible people and I cant stand the thought of my kids being left alone with them for even a minute much less days at a time. Its making me sick to my stomach. And I know she would manipulate my kids and turn them against me and try to portray herself as their mom just to get to me.