Hi! My name is Richard. I am ready to finally admit that I may need some professional help or simply just in general. I am what you call an empty shell simply existing in this world. The ironic thing is however, I help or assist people for a living; working as a Licensed Practical Nurse in a care home. I fight this evil inside me, lurking deep within. I am talking about depression of course. Non of my family member or any other people that I know exactly what I am going through; simply because I create such happy go along personality or façade.I became very good with lying all the time that sometimes I believe my own lies. Throughout my high school and college years, I have made some friends, but all of them turned out to be plastic. The only reason they hang out with me or talk to me is when it is in their best interest, and when it was my turn to ask for help or assistance, they are simply no where to be found; hence I have trust issues. To further add more complications towards my life, I have never have a relationship before therefore I am what you call lonely (I only have 2 real friends). I am turning 26 years old and I am getting way to old for this. I always blame that I am focusing on my studies first before relationships but the reality is that I feel like I have too many baggage and shortcomings (I am short; 5 feet 4 inches, I am not that good looking nor am I bad looking, and lastly, I am Filipino or Asian). I just feel that I am saving them the trouble knowing what kind of person I am and what kind of burden I bring to the table. It's not like I haven't tried pursuing somebody. When I was 7, it was almost Valentine Day and I had a big crush on somebody. So, I sent her some sort of love letter. As I look towards her, as she read the note, she cried and I cried too for some reason. I only saw her for 1 more month at school, the I found out that she and her family moved to Canada. I blame myself for that. Another relationship I tried to pursue is when I was in college doing my practical nursing. We were friends at first joking around and what not. Most people in our class call us Jack and Rose from Titanic because I always seem to flirt with her for fun. Then I started to have feelings for her, and tried to chase her persistently. Did I mention I kissed her out of the blue when we were hanging with our friends. At the time, it was nothing for both of us; just the typical college days. Cutting the story short, I was so persistent that she ended up marrying a guy who she has only been dating for a month to make a point to me. So once again, I feel alone and depressed.Every time I watch a movie or show that has the slightest sadness into it, like someone dying for example. I get very emotional wishing that I can take their place instead. I always feel that I have no sense of value and that the world will be better without me in it. Therefore, I always think that it should be me instead of someone who has a potential to live their life to fullest. I just feel that I deserved this for all I have done such as lying to everyone so that I am somewhat of a player and had many relationship because I act like it and seems to know a lot about relationships, pretending to be someone else just to feel better for myself, and pushing people away because everyone I know so far has led me down. I just feel that I deserved to suffer and that I cannot escape from this reality. I do not know what to do nor do I know what to expect. I do know that I need some help or simply someone to talk to and release all this emotions I have been bottling inside.