If you are here chances are you are or have been feeling suicidal.  If so I wanted to share something with you that may change your mind and perhaps help you.
 My sibling had recently committed suicide right after Christmas.   I had been trying to call and get ahold of them for 10 days.  I spoke to them the day before Christmas and everything sounded good.  Looking back I wish I would have said more, picked up on the signs and if I did this tremendous pain and guilt would not haunt me like it does...
 When you take your life I understand you are feeling like there is no way to fix your life.  Like you are at the end and nobody can understand you, there is no hope, no reason to go on.  And while I have not been there I can understand how hard it must be to feel that sad, that hopeless.  But please read on...
 When you take your life you take others with you. It's not like a death from illness or disease or accident.  It's a violent way out. It will haunt your loved ones for a lifetime.  They will be consumed with guilt and fear and suffer major post traumatic stress.  I cannot sleep with the light off.  I cannot walk down the basement alone.  I am so filled with fear for what my sibling went through in their last moments.  It's not peaceful people.  There is nothing peaceful about dying alone by yourself, having strangers find your body.  Having it held at a mourge for a week alone.  There is no peace left behind when you die.  The ones you love cry endlessly for hours.  They blame themselves.  They think of things they should have said or done - you will break their heart.  They are haunted and they will never be the same.
 I do not tell you this to hurt you.  I do not tell you this to add to your depression and hurt.  I tell you this because while I do not know you I love you and I want you to know that you may think those around you know what your going through but they do not.  Sometimes you may hide your feelings to us and act like you are happy.  I beg you to talk to us and tell us how you feel.  What you need and how we can help you. Because we your family and loved ones will do anything we can to help.  And if you feel that we will not or cannot understand please talk to someone who will.  We are out there wanting to help you.
 Please continue to fight and know that you ARE IMPORTANT. Your problems while they exist CAN be fixed. There IS a solution to your problem although you might not see it - the pain might be so severe you cannot see it but there is hope... always!!!
 Remember I do love you even though I do not know you I care.  Your life is worth it.  You are worth it. You have worth and value - do not ever forget this.