I have been a victim of sexual abuse from many offenders for many years- some time ago.  I am currently working at a job and one of the patients is a possible sexual offender.  He has been doing things to sexually offend employees.  The thing that he is doing is giving me flashbacks of what I have been through.  My previous offender is a very scary person to me. He is so scary that if I saw him today I would quit my job and run somewhere where no one knows me.  The sexual abuse I endures happened over 15 years ago for more than 5 years but I do not speak of it.  I am older and stronger now and will never be a victim again. I am over the age of 30 so this is no longer reportable.  I have been looking up this guy online to make sure that he does not live anywhere near me. About 3 months ago I found his name and address but did not find a picture.  This month due to the issue at work and the flashbacks, nightmares, etc...  I decided to look him up again to make sure he was no where near me.  I found that he is now on the sexual offender registry and saw his recent picture which haunts me. The man at works reminds me of him.   At work I pretent that all is well but I'm not.  It is physically sickening me.  This man has been placed in my care because his previous worker demanded he be removed from her responsiblity due to his sexually offensive comments to her. I agreed to treat him thinking I could handle this but during this time his sexually inappropriateness evolved from comments to behaviors and actions.  I want to quit my job.  He has done nothing to me but I it is awakening memories I tried to forget.  I do not work in a sexual offender program, hospital, or facility because I know I could not work with the same type of people who have hurt me.  Should I quit or should I stay.  I do not get paid much and can not afford counseling.  This months is the worst month for all of this to be happending. I have extensive grief and loss issues and have loss the closest people to me this month. I do not know if I am over reacting due to my hypersensitivity this month and due to my person issues with being sexual abuse.  Or if I should be feeling this way and should quit my job. What do you think???