#1 Lavender, has a soothing and calming effect. It stops irritability and wakes up the immune system. This is why lavender is used in aromatherapy sessions.  Lavender also has anti-bacterial properties and this can come in handy when the source of stress is inflammation is a bacterial infection.  There are many ways you can get the benefits of lavender including teas, aromatherapy leaves and essential oils.  Lavender could be placed in creams, lotions and sprays.  This herb is particularly good at easing away physical aches in the body and tension headaches.
#2 Licorice Root, to calm the body and mind.  Licorice creates a balance in the adrenal glands and can also level off spikes in blood sugar levels.  There are licorice teas and tonics that help to naturally erase stress.  This root has links to ancient kingdoms and monarchies in places like Egypt, Greece and China.  The most medicinal part of the licorice plant is the root.  One thing it will do is increase your energy! licorice has compounds which affect the adrenal glands by causing stimulation and excitement. You can use licorice root in teas, drinks and foods to enhance your mental state and promote physical vigor.  Chronic fatigue occurrences could also be handled by using this herb. 
 #3 Hydrilla,  The hydrilla herb contains vitamins like B12.  It also has magnesium and calcium. The herb helps to generate or build up the body’s blood supply and this is vital when you are stressed or if your immune system is compromised.  The great thing about using the hydrilla plant to fight herbs is that it, just like the other herbs, the stress relief that it provides is completely natural.  You can tap into the rejuvenation ability of this herb and there are hydrilla supplements which help you unleash the power of nature.  The B12 vitamin is a vital part of how this herb works.  B12 specifically works on the body to reduce anxiety and depression.  This uplifting action helps to naturally erase stress. 
#4 Polyrachis Ant Extract. The ant extract has also been used to tackle degenerative diseases.  When a person is stressed, energy may get depleted and this is where the polyrachis ant extract comes in to regenerate the depleted energy and revitalize the immune system.  There is also an anti-inflammatory and analgesic property that this extract provides. 
Before using any of the above check with your doctor first! I would guess most doctors wont know anything about these. So google each and check for side effects as in  Licorice Root!