I know there are many different types of abusive relationships..As I research more on the topic I believe I fall under the category of being in an abusive relationships. I have been with my boyfriend going in 6 years now..we have had a tumultuous relationship and many hardships. One of those hardships is always lack of $ bc he either can't hold a job down or just simply won't work. I am physically disabled I recently lost my disability income due to becoming pregnant 2x within the past 2yrs and I am appealing and fighting to get my income back but it's long process. He is very controlling and possessive. Such as I can't have any friends or go hang out with anyone. In the beginning within 3 months I had to move out of state to where he was from to be near his family. I am not allowed on FB or to even have a phone with minutes on it. I can only connect to WiFi and only allowed to be on it to watch movies for our son..I am literally sneaking on here while he is sleeping bc I am at the end of my rope with this relationship. He emotionally & mentally tears me down on a daily basis saying I have no one if it wasn't for him I wouldn't have a roof over my head (we just had to move BK in with his con artist mom who has stolen my identity in the past years racked up bills in my name and stolen my disability debit card and stole my $ when I was getting it his family no better than him).. also says I wouldn't have my son if I ever tried to leave him he would keep my son away from me or put him in the system just to spite me. Our son is my world he is closer to me than him on any given day. He uses our son to keep me with him and I know in my heart my son deserves better life than this. He also has threatened to kill me if I try to leave him..it to that extreme and yes I am terrified of him. He has hit me in the past but he doesn't do it often. I am under his control as well as his family and I have no way out. I think he is sending how done and different I feel and am being towards to him that my wallet has come up missing...not that I have any money to help me out of this predicament but my expired I'd and my n my son's medical was in my wallet. I grew up as orphan personally so I have no family members to turn to for help. My son is my rock and my only family and he is 2yrs old. I just found needles on his belongings and I believe he is using drugs again. I need help and advice to get my son n me out the grips of this abusive hellish relationship and far away from him n his family please