My cousin who is 12 ( female at the time was 6) about 3 weeks ago told her mother that her cousin who is now 20 (at the time 14) had messed with her when she was 6 but it only happened one time. Well the mother to her cousin didn't find this out until 2-12-11 and that was through a phone call from her brother who is locked up and is also the father to the 12 year on that this had been told to him upset mad and confused the cousins mother called the 12 years old mother to ask why she hadn't called and told her about this while the mother of the 12 year old  wouldn't answer the phone and didn't call back until hours later. Well when she finally called and was asked why didn't you call me about this she couldn't answer the question  all she could say was i know this happened and i blame my self for this and i believe my child because this happened to me when i was younger by her own cousin well she proceed to talk about her experience of this happing to her and never once in that hour converstation did the 12 year old come back up the only thing that was mentioned was that the 12 year old had said that this had happened to her. And that the 12 year old told her best friend and the school councilor to then whom she said called social services about the situation. The cousin who is now 20 has never been abused as a child always played sports and has never been in trouble is highly looked up to by the 12 year olds older brother who is 14 now (at the time 8) in whom sticks right up under him is saying this couldn't have happened because he was always with the 20 year old and he knows for a fact that this couldn't have happened. The 12 and 14 year old live in NC and only goes to the cousins house the 20, in the summer time for about 2-3 weeks (VA). In the meantime when these kids arent around theres always other little cousins around the 20 year olds house in which he still lives with his parents if i hadn't mentioned this before but he still lives at home. And the cousins are premarely girls in which are the same age as the 12 year old who's making these statements. They when found out what was going on all said the little girl was lying because they now that the 20 year old would never do that and that he never allowed them (girls) in his room unless there was more then 1 other person in the room with them. but to make a long story short does she have a case because the 12 year olds mother is looking to press charges against the cousin. One last thing the 12 year old is a dancer gyminist soccer player and cheerleader etc... the mother was "told" that at 10 when she had this girl checked that the girls "HYMEN" had been broken. Couldn't this have happened been that shes active in sports her self??