Hi everyone. This is my first post on this forum, so I don't know what to expect. If you're reading this, I thank you for taking some time out of your life, and I'd be extremely grateful for any help or guidance anyone can hopefully provide me.
 I have suffered from Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), severe Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), Body Dismorphic Disorder (BDD), and Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ever since I was 15 years old. I am now 35, and I have tried, literally,...EVERYTHING!
 I've been diagnosed with the above depressive disorders by MULTIPLE psychiatrists on both coasts, as well as internationally for TWO DECADES!
 I've gone through the usual suspects, such as all (I mean ALL of them when I say all) of the SSRI's (Paxil, Zoloft, Luvox, Prozac, Celexa, Lexapro, Effexor) for my depression. I've also been prescribed, mostly in vein also, Xanax, Klonopin, Valium, and Oxazepam for my anxiety.
 NOTHING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Nothing. :( Little to No benefit. Just plenty of side effects!
 Psychotherapy (3 times a WEEK for YEARS, and THOUSANDS of dollars worth) helped to a small degree. However, nowhere near to an extent that one could consider successful.
 Three years ago, I came across a German newspaper article, which outlined that there are physicians who deal with patients who are abnormally severely depressed, such as myself, and treat them with opiates.
 I actually found a doctor in Germany  who has been prescribing opiates for me, and it has been a LIFESAVER!!! At LONG last, I was free, and I was able to enjoy my life. I was very closely monitored to see if I got addicted to the point where I would need more and more every day, but luckily, I never needed a dosage adjustment after an appropriate dose was found. I take them at the SAME TIME each day, never more, never less. I don't get the euphoric feeling that I've been reading about a lot either.
 I can just BE OK...for the first time in my life, which has been miserable throughout my teenage years, and early adulthood. 
 I'm sure a lot of doctors look at this as preposterous, but if you had to live my life, you would look for what I realize is a somewhat unorthodox type of therapy, but it WORKS! It...just...WORKS! 
 Have any of you experienced similar situations?? Have you been able to find a doctor who is willing to prescribe opiates for your depression?
 PHYSICIANS: If you're reading this, can you please either contact me by way of Private Message, or in the forum here and let me know if you would be so kind as to see me in person, and make your own assessment.
 I am willing to fly to ANY of the 50 states, if that's what it takes. I DESPERATELY want to live my life, and although I can continue to travel to Europe to get my prescription (usually 4 months' worth at a time), and come back to L.A., which is what I've been doing, I would really like to find a doctor who is willing to help me here in the United States.
 A couple of additional brief facts about me: I do not drink. I do not smoke. I do not do any illicit drugs. Hell, I don't even drink coffee. And I'm tired of hearing how it's so "silly of me to be depressed at all" because I have so many things going for me in the way of looks, success in what I do for a living, etc.
 I honestly honestly just want to LIVE without having to board a transcontinental, and transatlantic flight to Europe where I've found that one doctor who has been amazing to me.
 I would love to get in touch with a doctor here in the U.S., even if it's only for a consultation/assessment. Again, I'm located in the Los Angeles area, but I'm willing to fly to ANY state.
 Thank you so much for listening!