I need some insight as to what's going on with recent blood tests. In April, I went to the doc for an ear infection that wouldn't go away. Doc did a standard CBC. It came back with elevated eosinphils at over 14%. She sends me to a hematologist / oncologist. 
 Hemo doc repeats CBC and does a whole other battery of tests.Results show eos's still high, and total protein low. He sends me out for an echocardigram and a ct scan and a follow up appointment for a month later. 
 echo and ct results are normal. 
 Next labs from hemo doc, eos's still high, total protein low, then it also shows i've developed anemia. RBC, iron saturation, and hematocrit all low. So he puts me on iron does additional labs, and tells me to come back in 4 weeks. 
 That appointment was last week. Results: eosinophils have gone up higher than before. Total protein, still low. Anemia has improved but I barely made if over the hump. but, another abnormality showed up. Now, my RDW (red blood cell distribution) is elevated above normal. Doc says that means now my red blood cells are varying in size..... 
 He set my next appointment up for August and said if labs come back with abnormalities again, he wants to do a bone marrow biopsy. In the interim, he's sending me to a determatologist to check for atopic dermatitus, and a sleep clinic for a sleep study. My biggest complaint to do is that I am ALWAYS SO TIRED, and feel like i'm going to "pass out" from fatique just sitting at my desk at work. VERY sleepy ALL the time. 
 Ok, 
The abnormal blood test are recent. 
 2013 I was diagnosed with trigeminal neuralgia. That's an electric like shock pain that comes from the trigeminal nerve in the brain. and it is PAINFUL. Then, I was put through a battery of tests with a neurologist who thought i had MS. 3 MRI's later - nothing showed up and it was written off as idopathic. 
 I still have the TN. It's actully getting worse - the pain is. The attacks are less frequent but now they wake me up at night and it's a paralysing sensation. 
 My question is, 
1) anyone have any insight to what might be happening with my blood 
2) can what's going on with my abnormal blood test be the cause of my trigeminal neuralgia. 
3) is all this a developing bone marrow disorder? 
 any advice, insight, suggestions are greatly appreciate. 
 thanks!