well basically i was in my longest relationship with my ex
 which was my first love.
Everything was soo perfect
we were great for eachother
wed spend almost everyday of our life together
 going to the movies, eating at resturaunts, going to theme parks with friends, you name it
it was all too good to be true.
 i was her first in everything
first gf etc
 it was bliss.
after awhile problems started uprising
 she started having trust issues
because other girls would flirt with me
and i do admit
id flirt back.
honestly i wasent relationship material
ive cheated on everybody that ive been with.
so this was the first time that i dident cheat
inawhile.
we started arguing more which eventually drove me to cheat on her with a old crush of mine
and i told her about it
 but she still stayed with me
but tole me that she was no longer inlove with me which was totally understnadable.
day after day she started becoming more and more distant
started coming home later and later
until i finally realized that she was cheating on me.
 confrunted her about it
she admitted to it.
it literally broke me.
btw. we were engaged.
gave her the ring back
was depressed for monthes, couldent stop crying, the worst heartbreak ever.
shed call me or text me claiming that she still loved me but that she couldent be with me because someone else won her heart.
i tried to move on countless times but everytime i would try too she would always come back into my life and would want me back.
i fell for it eachtime.
after about a year i dont talk to her anymore
 she has texted me one in the last 2 monthes thats about it.
im currently in a serious relationship
 im very inlove with this person like i was with my ex
 but i still cant let her go...
i think about her atleast 2-3 times a day
even if i dont wanna talk about her or think about her
i still do.
 i just wanna move on with my new life
im thinking that i need sum closure to properly end this?
any advice would be appreciated.
btw. im currently dealing with anxiety/panic attacks
due to this =(