Hello. I am concerned lately as to the state of my mind in relation to psychosis. I have been diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder, however the symptoms I am experiencing fall out of the regular signs associated with this personality disorder.
 Now, I was told in the past, that I was at high risk for developing schizophrenia. I have been having some persistent symptoms that have me worried that I may very well be heading in the direction of this diagnosis. I am not a professional and have no clue what is going on in my mind. I would just like some guidance and ideas as to what might be going on.
 For starters, I have been experiencing some persistent confusion. I have difficulty 'keeping up' with my racing thoughts and logic. My mind seems to be taking me to places that I had no intention of going, and faster then I could possibly grasp. This leads me to feeling extremely confused and disoriented.
 Secondly, I am having difficulty distinguishing my dreams from reality. Often times I will dream of simple, everyday activities, and upon mentioning, or asking if these events occured, I will be told that nothing of that sort happened. I constantly experience hypnagogic and hypnopompic hallucinations, with and without sleep paralysis. I also have what I like to call 'para-hypnagogic/hypnopompic hallucinations'. I use this to refer to times when I am not quite as far into the sleep cycle in which these hallucinations usually occur. More often then not, I am quite awake.
 Thirdly, I am extremely paranoid! This is to the point that when i am having a paranoid episode I began acting out impulsively. A few examples include : jumping off a bus when I felt a paranoid panic that something horrible would happen. Hiding in bushes and behind cars when I felt that someone was following me, or watching me, and locking all my doors and windows upon being convinced that someone had followed me home with bad intentions.
 At some pointsd, I have actually hallucinated both auditorily and visually someone watching me, or following me. I would not have known that these things were not real, had some friends and family not called me out on them. 
 I also experience intense depersonalization. I might feel I am in a dream, or that I am watching myself. I experience intense bouts of de ja vu and strange, indescribable feelings. 
 I have intense mood changes (yes, this has to do with BPD, mentioning for the sake of it). These vary in intense anger, to intense happiness. I am also extremely sensitive and the smallest degree of insult will leave me in tears for days. 
 I am often told that I jabber on about nothing and that my stories or conversations make no sense. This might be just a poor memory, but one can never be sure. I also have some thought disorder including trailing, and sudden stops in conversation. This is because I get distracted or totally forget what i am saying. This is another symptom that I was not aware of until It was pointed out.
 I have experienced other auditory hallucinations on and off. Usually short comments or my name being whispered. Other times i hear footsteps. 
 All of these symptoms wane and wax and have been occuring for a little over a year. They have been most prominent over the last 6 months. 
 Help! Is this a sign of schizophrenia? Or is the psychosis surfacing from something else?
 Thankyou!