A dear, childhood family friend, did the unspeakable this Saturday...he committed suicide by hanging. There are no words to describe what this had done to the family...they are destroyed.  I did a little reseach and found the following information useful, hopeful and helpful to anyone who is so depressed that would consider the mortal sin of taking their own life. If only my friend would have read this, he would be alive today. It's long, but worth it. Thank you for reading it!!!!
 1) Acknowledge that I am only an actor on this stage of life and understand that our choices and actions here on earth, can lead us to many possible destinies both in this world and the afterworld. There are win/win solutions for every challenge humans can face no matter how bleak it looks now. more
 2) Realize that I alone am responsible for where I am today and that I cannot blame God or others. There are tools available to me right now, including prayer, forgiveness, rebuking, repenting and the 10 Commandments of Life that have a proven track record and that will give true hope which will act as my beacon of light out of the darkness. more 
 3) Forgive ourselves. This act of love will begin the dialogue with our heart, which can lead us from darkness. Self-blame is only lack of understanding. We cannot beat ourselves up with hindsight, we are truly just learning this knowledge on a day to day basis. We are designed to go forward in life. more
 4) Begin writing a brief honest autobiography of your life highlighting the challenges, accomplishments and blessings. From this, create an UNRESOLVED LIFE CONFLICTS LIST of people, events or situations that have created disharmony(negative feelings) for us or others, or where we may have broken one of God's 10 Commandments. more
 5) From our list of Unresolved Life Conflicts, say a separate prayer of forgiveness to each person, asking or forgiving them (including yourself). Have this come from the sole intent that you want to free your soul from the bondage (suffering) that has been created by holding on to that unresolved life conflict or memory. Repeat daily with step 6, until the issue has dissolved, asking God for Help and to bring sincerity, willingness, and understanding to this task. Then rebuke (make conscious separation from this kind of action past and future) and repent (make commitment to follow the laws of life from this day forward) each Commandment that you broke. Spiritual healings generally take 9 days, so be patient and follow this exercise each day until it becomes a habit. more
 6) Attempt to make direct amends with the list of individuals who have harmed you or that you have harmed in any way. This greatly reduces what is on our plate and frees us from future karma with these people, even if they do not respond favorably to us. The courage is built in to human nature to do this. If possible make the attempt in person, by phone or if these two fail write a letter or say a prayer message to their spirit if they are deceased. more
 7.) Practice forgiveness and repentance with yourself on a daily basis. Forgiveness is FOR the GIVER. The benefit is 80% for you and only 20% for the one that you have the conflict with. That other person has the Law of the Universe to deal with for their actions, let that greater Law determine their justice. Holding on to any negative emotions only hurts us and is at the root of most chronic diseases and the helplessness that can lead to suicide. Repentance is a powerful practical tool that keeps our personal record clean and accelerates our growth to fulfillment.