I'm from India. My son-in-law seems to be suffering from some form of disorder.
He has been married to my my daughter for about 14 months.
He is unusally quiet. Even in a large gathering he hardly opens his mouth. Speaks  only when spoken to. He's a highly qualifed person and working for a top most co. here. At first we thought may be he is reserved or shy and will open up once he gets to know us well. But things have not changed in the  2 yrs we have known him. Just 2 months after he got married to my daughter, he started following her to office, checking her sms, calls logged on the cell phone. When confronted he accused my daughter of having an affair in the office. Initially it would be once in a while and later on he would apologise and promise that he believed her, but next day he would be repeating the same thing saying that she is cheating on him.again after sometime he would again aplogise. Soon this was repeated almost 4-5 times a day on holidays..He would even wake her up in the middle of the night and star all over again, again promising not to repeat.In the morning when she is leave for  office again he starts. oherwise he is a v well behaved boy, but when he is under this attack he talks like a pervert. At times he also hallucinates. and also sleeps v little.
it seems he was a heavy smoker and used to take alcohol during college days. Admits to having experimented on ganja. for sometime he had given up drinking and smoking, but now is back to his old ways again.
His family is not v forthcoming on the issue. They are not ready to admit if he's had the problem in the past.
He is not ready to seek medical help. The father consulted a psychiatrist sometime back. He has prescribed Risperidone liquid.  Says this will help to check the suspicious nature and will agree to see a doctor.The day he takes alcohol, the medicine is not given. So the medication will be v irregualr and not serve the purpose.
Someone please guide as to what form of disorder is he suffering from. I have surfed the net and found that symptoms of paranoid  personality are identical.
 Need guidance. How to get him to see a doctor. Is this disorder hereditary and can it affect the kid born in such cases.
One of his maternal suffered from some form of disorder.