hi, 
 i have never done something like this before so i am looking for some advice from some women with the same problems... 
 i was with my boyfriend for 3 years. we had an amazing relationship until his mother really started to become over involved in our lives.  i always had a feeling that something was a little off about the way she treated her kids, but she really has no life of her own. she doesnt have any friends, doesnt speak to her 2 sisters, and didnt speak to her mother for 30 years before she died last winter. she liked me for the first 2 years of our relationship and when we moved in together, everything fell apart. she was always wanting to meet me at the beach (where her son is a lifeguard), meet me for lunch or shopping, she would show up where i worked to have a drink at the bar (i also had gotten her youngest daughter a job there), she wanted to meet us out for drinks when we were having a date night. when we were off from work she requested family dinners at least 2 times a week. our time was never our own...it was all according to what she wanted.  now, for the first 2 years i dealt with it but once we moved in together i couldnt take it anymore. she would show up unannounced and even came over once while we were in bed together.  she stopped talking to me in september of 2010 and told my bf that i was no longer invited to family dinners and she told him to not show up with me at thanksgiving. it put such strain on our relationship. my bf kept telling me that he would tell her to knock of the bull  but he never did. his older sister even claimed that i saw her at a local food store and that i tried to run her over. she is as crazy as the mother. the mom called the cops on us because she thought an innocent "i love you" text from my bf to his siblings and  parents was a suicide note. it was a disaster. my bf never confronted her about any of these things. it all got swept under the rug and was never spoken about. he stopped going to dinner at her house and tried to cut contact. he would occassionally have lunch with her and he would always say that it was awkward and nothing would  get resolved. every week there was a new problem or new story that the mom or sister would make up, we would both be upset, i would cry and then we would move on to the next day...until the next problem was made by his family. we have made plans for our future together, picked out an engagement ring, looked for homes, put his house on the market, moved all of my things into our home. we went away on vacation and when we came home, he shut down. he told me that he felt nervous and anxious all of the time and that he felt like he had to choose between me and his famliy. he felt he had to choose his family because they are the only family that he has. he says he loves me but he doesnt see how our future could be easy with the way his family is. he refuses to stand up to them and defend me. i am devastated over this breakup and i struggle every day with the way he handled the situation. am i at fault? i feel like my bf should have stood up for me but i thought if i stayed strong for us, then he would have eventually come around and so would his mom. do i let this relationship go or is there hope? i am so depressed. my friends and family have been supportive but i feel like there should be something else that can be done. please give me some of your feedback. thank you.