Hello. I would like to ask about my female friends health problems. This is because she would never normally look online herself or talk to a doctor about anything but a medical emergency.
I would really appreciate any views or ideas or just people with the same or similar issues. Thanks you.
She is around 21 and she frequently hears a range of different voices which talk to her. Sometimes they are silent but other times they talk almost nonstop. She also sometimes has visual hallucinations, for example once when she was alone in a dark room she later described to me that her hands were leaving trails of sparks behind them. She cannot always tell what is a hallucination and what isn't. Visual hallucinations seem to be more rare. She says she has had these for all her life (however this may not be true?). She often feels dizzy if she stands up too quickly or sometimes randomly. This can cause her to fall over or even pass out (although I have not seen this). She also often feels ill or sick in general often and gets stomach aches. She has allergic reactions to many things which cause her throat to swell up and can make it hard for her to breath. Because of this she has prescribed herself antihistamines which she orders online. She takes one pill every time she eats (just before eating). I think she may be taking Cetirizine or another well known antihistamine. I do not know if she is taking the correct dosage.
She also has trouble sleeping. Often feels tired. Often sleeps in until late in the day and stays up through the night. She gets headaches and has nightmares often. She almost always dreams vividly (although not always a nightmare). She feels like there's nothing interesting or worthwhile to do and has trouble enjoying things. She has tried to kill herself at least a couple of times. She hates winter and will complain she is cold unless the temperature is very high. She lies all the time compulsively, often for no reason at all and feels no one really knows how she really is. She seems to be quite lonely a lot of the time and doesn't really have many friends; almost no that live near her to meet with. She does not get on with her parents (who she lives with) and they are not caring to her and are sometimes quite horrible. However her parents can upon occasion do something which suggests they do care about her such as take her for a meal or buying her something (normally jewelry which she loves). However she is not happy in her home and is very relieved on the rare occasions her parents are away. She sometimes talks about hating humanity as a whole and wants to run away to the jungle away from people. She however likes being with animals which she helps.
I'd guess that she has depression and likely schizophrenia as well as bad allergies to many things. However non of this is known for sure as she doesn't ever go to a doctor about any of this or even normally tell anyone.
I may have missed some important things but non come to mind right now.
Thank you for reading. I'd be interested to hear what you have to say.