Hi everyone,
 My relationship is going down the drain and I feel the need to hear some opinions and encouragement.
 I met my girlfriend 6 years ago, when I was 21. From the moment I first saw her, I felt something special for this girl. I haven't had any serious relationships before her (the longest one lasted 3 months), so I guess I was a little immature in that regard. She, however, was in a 2 year relationship when we met. When we started dating she told me that she recently broke up with her boyfriend - which was true. What I didn't know was that her previous relationship didn't have problems, and even that she felt at one point that that guy was "the one".
 During this 6 years we finished university, got our first jobs, lived together, and, a year and a half ago, decided to move to another country. We never had a fight, I met her parents, she met my family, and we were considering getting married soon. We were the 'perfect couple', doing everything together. The only ones in our group of friends that did not have to go through painful break-ups.
 After arriving to our new country, I was lucky enough to get a (good) job at a company in my field of work, and started taking some courses to boost up my resume. In the meanwhile she decided to re-direct her career and go to University to get another degree, which I fully supported.
 Fast-forward to a week ago. She stays late one night  without telling me. I try calling but her phone is off. I am worried sick, call all her friends from school, but nobody seems to know where she is. Finally, she gets back around 11:00PM claiming to have been to a badminton class with a colleague, and that there were no bars in the underground gym.
 The next day she tells me that she lied about the badminton thing. She went out with a colleague that she has a huge crush on. Nothing hapened, but now she feels the need to finish our relationship, even if she realizes that it would be a very irrational thing to do. And then she confesses that her previous boyfriend had the same fate, being dumped even if though there was nothing wrong with her relationship at that time. Obviously, it was a good choice, so she thinks that this time it should go the same way. 
 It was so unexpected, that I felt like being hit by a truck. I tried to rationalize things, confessed about one of my own crushes (that was kind of obvious, but we never discussed openly about it) and how I managed to get over it, told her that what she feels is normal and that it will fade with time. I also stated that I am the best option for her and that the grass is not always greener on the other side of the hill.
 Her reply was that she felt I can't give her more than what I already had, and that going with the flow has always turned out great for her. She also said that she's convinced both of us can find happines in the arms of someone else, and that there is no such thing as "the one". 
 Finally, my arguments stopped her on her way out, barely avoiding the disaster. That very evening we went for dinner to a restaurant and she said that she's very thankful for the way I handled the situation and that she's glad she made the right choice.
 A couple of days later I called the guy. He was cool, admitting that he went out to a bar with her, said that they were nothing but colleagues, that he will stay away from my girlfriend and that he doesn't have any intention of breaking up my relationship.
 During this past week I tried to be more fun, more thoughtful, to win her attention, to captivate her. It seems like it didn't quite work. We had a conversation about the status of our relation, and she said that the physical attraction for her crush is gone, but that the idea of starting over is stuck into her head and that, for now, I'm fighting by myself.
 I am in a very bad emotional state, and it's starting to affect my job and school performance. Since I am living in another country, I don't have any family or real friends here, so no one to actually talk about. Every reply to this post will be very much appreciated, even if it's just "buddy, you're an idiot."