Every since my health has gone down hill in the last 1-2 years my husband has changed.  He use to be one of those men who would do anything for me and wait on me hand and foot if I let him.
 Now that I need his help he holds it over my head and many times does not even end up helping me, instead I am left crying.
 Last winter I was newly diagnosed with Rheumatoid Arthritis and Fibromyalgia  and this was about 6 months before falling down 24 concrete apartment building stairs while visiting my family out of state.  Just that fall itself made me look like I had been beaten half to death.  The bruises, fractures, and concussion took about 6 months to recover as much as I ever will.  Soon that valentine's day, last winter, I went into a Rheumatoid flare up I now know.  I woke up and could not open or close my hands.  They were like claws that would not move.  They throbbed in horrible pain that I could barely take without going crazy. Soon after other joints started to pain me severely including my hips and knees and back and my feet especially hurt so bad every morning to where I could barely walk to the bathroom to relieve myself,, and there were many times my husband helped me out of bed whiile I cried in pain. 
   Well, we waited and waited for it all to go away but it never did.  It got better once I got on potent painrelievers and summer came, but it never completely goes away.  I am chronically affected and have not worked for a year although I do receive a some unemployment that will soon end.
   My husband is very cruel at times and just refuses to do simple things for me that I can't or that really hurts me to do.  It's like he thinks I'm at home just enjoying myself while he's at work.  The truth couldn't be anything from the further.  I hurt everyday.  I can't even open up my own water bottle.  Even though, I have from time to time to find a job but have not been successful although I am certain I would not be able to make it long at a manual labor job which is what is in highest demand currently.
   My husband has been complaining of an old foot injury and has commented about how he has to go to work anyway.  I tried to explain to him to imagine how it would feel if numerous joints hurt all the time, but he does not want to hear it.  He mentioned to me one night that there's a girl at his work that has a boyfriend that doesn't work and she supports him.  
   Previous to this last year I have always worked and made 2-3 times more money than my husband.  We all miss the money, but it's like he punishes me for it.  I can hardly get him to do anything around the house on his days off because he feels I am at home all the time and should do it all and he would rather play computer games.
   My husband is a massage therapist and I can barely get the once a week massage he promised me to help my back.  sometimes when I ask him for it he makes a big disruption, sets up, and then says get your *** up here now if you want your massage.  Very verbally abusive.  His job offers me no insurance so he knows I am at his mercy.
 It seems he doesn't care what my condition is.  He would rather me just work and hurt myself so he could do less and have more play money.  Mind you the whole time I've been off work, I've had $2,000 a month coming in to help with expenses.  So, it's not like he has solely taken care of the household at all, but that's the way he acts because I use to get paid 3x that much.
   I love him to death, but his treatment really makes me question his true feelings for me.  I can't think of all the examples, but he verbally abuses me on a regula basis for not having a job or not having things done  around the house despite what physical condition I am in at the time.  I also suffer from depression and anxiety and it is just getting worse.  Also, I think he feels he can get away with talking to me however he wants now because we now live by only his family after coming here when his mom became terminal with cancer and has since passed.  I have no hope he'll ever leave here now.
   He comstantly minimizes my conditions.  I just found out that I also have a hiatal hernia and ulcer that he got pissed off for taking me to the emergency room after I was unable to stop vomiting and thriving in abdominal pain.  He tried to say I was just in withdarawal from running low on pain meds, but then the ER doc confirmed the hiatal hernia and ulcer, but he still didn't take it seriously.  Also while I was at the hospital I had chest pain and the EKG showed my heart to be fluttering instead of beating normally, they were gonna convert me, but my body all of a sudded self converted.  So, I have a lot of health problems, No insurance, and have to use what little money I get to pay for the bills cause my husband doesn't make enough money, but yet I am to be made to feel like crap all the time, like I am just faking it because I'm just lazy.  Please, I would so rather be out having fun and making good money and have all my bills paid.
 I do not know what is wrong with this man.  There was a year several years back that he got in a car accident and I paid everything by myself all year.  He has never paid for everything and has the nerve to make me feel bad cuz I can't get more money in the house and clean more so he can just be lazier and play wow all day. No offense to wow players.
 Thanks for listening, does anyone have any advice.  I've been with this man for 20 years this month.  I don't want to just throw it all away. Is there anyway I can make him see what I am going through or to be more understanding??  Has anyone else had this situation b4 or currently? I really need some support since obviously I'm not getting it here.  I'm tired of crying myself to sleep at night.