If you look at my (lengthy...sorry) past questions and comments, you will see I'm desperately seeking answers concerning a serious, sudden-onset issue that began in Aug, 2012.  
 I'm still wondering if (maybe hoping that) it's just peri-menopause.  (I've been looking forward to menopause for years, so I would not be unhappy if my problem is linked to menopause.  Of course, it is whatever it is...)
 Symptoms have improved dramatically since May 2013 or so.  However, they're still bad enough to significantly impact my life and personal freedom.  Just know that my day-to-day life is now RADICALLY different than the 46 years leading up to Aug. 2012.)
 When I raise the subject, every doctor I've seen has said there's no way I'm in peri-menopause or that it might be causing my symptoms.  They dismiss it almost out of hand.  (Keep in mind that even though I'm 47, I'm frequently presumed to be in my 20s....and more than one doctor has remarked that he had to remind himself of my real age.)  However, when I compare my symptom log with my menstrual cycles, there is some carryover, albeit not absolute.  What I mean is, many of my more severe symptoms occur leading up to, or during, my periods.  However, say maybe 40% are not close to a period.  Similarly, since my period occupies 1/4 of my life (or half my life, if I include the week leading up to it) it may just be coincidence.  I've had a bad couple of days, and my period should start in two days.  That's why I'm still wondering if it might be hormone-related.
 I am in excellent physical health, overall.  I eat an extremely healthy diet and exercise daily.  If there is any change in my periods, it would be that they're MORE regular (keeping in mind I have PCOS).  (Since 2007, my periods have steadily gone from 21-45 day cycles, down to pretty predictable 27-30 day cycles.)
 I have few (if any) of the typical peri-menopause symptoms.  No loss of libido.  No hot flashes or night sweats.  No vaginal dryness (if anything, an increase in normal vaginal fluid).
 My symptoms (nowadays mostly 
-blurred vision, 
-headaches, 
-head pressure, 
-the sensation of mild hypoxia, 
-upper abdominal/lower chest pain, 
-nausea) 
 ...are nearly 24/7.  (I had my first-ever headache in my mid-30s, then maybe once a year, if that.  Now they're pretty much daily.)  
 Diarrhea was an almost daily occurrence when this all first began.  Now, it's about once per week.  
 Because eating often results in upper abdominal discomfort and other symptoms, I'm almost afraid to eat, sometimes.  I almost can't eat at night without feeling ill,  (When this first began, the "episodes" typically occurred within a half hour of a meal...but not every meal.  However, blood work and stool anlysis, plus the fact symptoms don't occur after every meal, tend to rule out most diet-related concerns.)  
 Other transient symptoms occur, as well.  
 I can elicit more severe symptoms by doing a visually-demanding task, such as driving or watching a movie or performance with lots of movement, or even playing a game on my iPad for an extended period.  That's the only part that doesn't seem like it could be hormone-related.
 I have not had a single day where I feel like myself, since this suddenly began, one day, while quietly sitting on my couch playing solitaire on my iPad, in Aug. 2012.  (Symptoms began suddenly and severely, occurring daily for the first two weeks.  They diminished gradually until the middle of 2013, at which point they evened off to a tolerable, albeit frustrating, level.)
 I've had only normal results from various blood tests, a stool analysis, Holter monitor, loop monitor, brain scan, breast ultrasound, complete physical exam, echocardiogram, eye exam, and more.  
 Most recently, I requested my (new) doctor refer me to a neuro-opthalmologist.  Instead, he sent me to a quack neurologist.  (I don't say that lightly.  I found the guy to be completely incompetent.  After my appt. I looked online and found dozens have rated him 1/5, and said they would be reporting him to the medical board.)  The double-whammy is I no longer trust my GP, since he referred me to someone he should've known was incompetent.
 I have no history of anything (besides PCOS).  I've had a few colds, maybe the flu once or twice, and vertigo once.  My vision was 20/15 (now 20/20, for the most part).  My heart rate is usually in the 60s.  My BP is usually <100/<70.  My temperature is normal.  I have always been off-the-charts heat-intolerant, though.  I have very little stress in my life and am pretty much the exact opposite of what anyone would call anxious.  I am generally a happy, contented person.
 As for family history, my mother went through spontaneous menopause at age 48, when my father was killed in a boating accident.  My 52-year-old sister believes she is just entering peri-menopause, while my oldest sister didn't start until age 60.
 **************
 Alas, yet another way-too-detailed question that will probably lead nowhere. :O  But if anyone has expertise in menopause/peri-menopause, and can weigh in on the chances my curious problem is just unusual symptoms of peri-menopause, I'd dearly love to know.  (Right now, as I write this, a moderate, day-long headache continues, my chest feels heavy, I feel like I'm not getting enough oxygen and sigh a lot, I have brief bouts of tinitus, and even with reading glasses, the text is often blurry and difficult to read...but not uniformly.)  
 I've considered countless other possibilities, but my otherwise good health and test results tend to rule out everything so far.  Plus, the multi-system nature of my symptoms would suggest more of an endocrine issue.  But what do I know...?
 Thanks to anyone who takes the time to really read all of this. :)  You deserve a medal or something.  My thanks will have to do.  ;)