I'm a 37 year old female and have been in what I would describe as a midlife crisis for about 6 years! I'd really like to hear of other's experiences of midlife crisis and how long the crisis period lasted, as I fear I am never going to escape mine! 
 A bit about me. I spent my 20's doing three jobs in vaguely similar careers, although in each case I abandoned the designated career route through a combination of boredom, itchy feet and fear of too much responsibility. The last post lasted 6 years after which time I had gained a higher degree (hard slog) and that took me to the age of 31. iAt that point I realised I'd lost all interest in what I was doing and had become very disillusioned with that career path.
 Relationship wise, I have never married and have never lived with anyone, but I have had a handful of partners in between some fairly long periods of being single. My relationships have tended to last 2-4 years before I have ended them through a combination of boredom, itchy feet and fear of commitment. At 31 I had been single for a few years and this was really starting to bring me down.
 So it all came to a head at 31. Fed up with my career, no idea what else to do, no partner, biological clock ticking. I became very depressed and then eventually lost my job, partly through my work sliding because I'd lost all passion and motivation. 
 I've spent the last 4 years doing jobs I have hated in between  long periods of unemployed (another awful experience). At first I thought the key to my crisis was to uproot and start over so I started a new trainee job (very related to what Id been doing before) and relocated. However I soon realised that I hated the work, hated being 'bottom of the pile' again, being a student, working long hours and never having time to build a social life or meet potential partners so I quit after 6 months. Then I changed careers completely, thinking it would be great to do something community based - looked like fun, people centred, good causes etc but then I realised my personality didnt fit and I still wasn't passionate about what I was doing. I'm still in that field (in a second job) but hate it. I just feel apathetic and disinterested. If I didn't need a wage I'd drop it all in a heartbeat and never work again.
 Two years ago I hooked up with a guy and it was great at first, but now, as ever, I am at that point where I am bored and can't see me taking the next step. If I'm honest I never intended to stay with him long term. He was never 'Mr right' by any means but because things were so bleak on that front I just stuck with him, and here we are. He talks of us moving in together and having kids. I've always wanted kids, but I still don't feel ready and I don't want them with him, but it's almost too late, right? 
 So that's it in a nut shell. I just can't seem to turn a corner. Stuck in what feels like a never ending crisis!