I have a 12yr old step-daughter.  She doesn't live with us, she and her mother live in a different state.  They use to live in the same state as we do but moved a couple of years ago.  Since moving she has been very disrespectful to her father, her grandmother, and other adult relatives.  She is 12 and acts as if she is 19.  Her mother is only worried about child support and refuses to co-parent with my husband.  His daughter only calls when she wants something and brushes off any real conversation that he tries to have with her.  If he calls her the mother is likely to answer and cuss him out for whatever reason.  He use to pay child support directly to her but once he and I had a baby she decided that the previously agreed upon amount was no longer enough.  Instead of asking for more money she pretended to not receive any of the payments.  When he made it clear he was going to try and tract down the lost money she admitted to receiving it and stated that it was no longer enough and  she was going to take him to child support court.  He is not opposed to child support court and found out that the ordered amount is not unlike the amount he was already sending.  I am a college student and stay at home mom my husband's ex wife makes 2.5times what he makes but leads his daughter to believe her father isn't buying her everything she wants because he loves her less.  This upsets me greatly and I know it hurts my husband's feelings.  His daughter talks to us as if we are the "poor people" and makes a point to bring up anybody's salary and how much money they have.  This bothers me that a child would know any adult's salary, why would you discuss this with a child? I may be leaving out that his ex wife is very childish and lies to his daughter constantly about her dad just to make him look bad, for example if he tells her he can't buy her something her mom tells her it's because he wants to spend his money elsewhere and if loved her he'd get what she wants.  I know this because my step daughter has told us in some sit down talks that we have when she visits.  I think his ex wife is childish and doing a disservice to her daughter by purposefully trying to ruin their father/daughter relationship.  My step daughter has become very disrespectful and aside from puberty I think it comes from the bad things her mom says about her dad.  Spring break is coming up and she will be at our house, after last week saying that if he wasn't going to pay more child support she didn't want to be bothered (step daughter said this), my husband works all day and I am the only one home I don't feel like putting up with her attitude and disrespect, I have a baby to take care of I'm a full time student and I have another school aged child.  I just feel like why would you allow your child to be so disrespectful toward their father then send her for visits? My parents were separated and lived in different states and one would never allow me to disrespect the other and neither ever shared "adult" business with me like they told me the details of the break up or shared child support information with me or shared their ill flings toward each other with me.  Does anyone know how I feel? Does anyone have similar experience and have advice how I can deal with this situation? The daughter and I use to have good relationship and still a somewhat good one I just don't know how to deal with this.  I feel like it is getting worst.