I have a friend with borderline personality disorder and have done extensive 'internet' research on this as I feel that my partner has this - he has terrible tempers and flies of the handle over the littlest things, I am constantly walking on eggshells, making sure before he comes home that there is nothing that might anger him. He has become very verbally abusive (he has never hit me, but has 'pushed' me a few times) - I do love him and we have been together for 11 years, he knows he has 'anger' issues, but he has no idea how 'extensive' his issues are. He has abandonment issues (from being adopted), he has fallen out with a lot of his friends (and now his family), continues to push those that love him away - and even admitted to me last year (when he went through a 'depression' spell) that he feels he doesn't deserve me (or anyone who loves him) so he pushes them away.
I want desperately to help him realise that 'he' needs to get some help & have attempted to get 'us' into counselling for the past few years, but he doesn't feel he needs this and can 'deal with this' on his own.
He hasn't been diagnosed with this (as he doesn't think he has an issue) but I am almost 100% certain as he shows all the symptoms. I have been in the spare room for two weeks now after his last out burst - he had set the video to tape some programmes & never left me a note to let me know (which he usually does) therefore I ended up changing the channel - he got very angry and very verbal abusive (which I guess I am used to now).
Last night I finally decided to confront him over his anger & also to let him know how much this is hurting me - he really feels that I am to blame for 'everything' - he is not to blame at all, and honestly seems to have no idea that he is doing this to me.
I do want to stand by him and help him as I know he does love me (when things are good, they are fantastic) and don't really want to get to the point where I have to give him an ultimatum.
I told him last night after (I am pretty sure he took a lot of what I said in) to have a really good think about things & to let me know when 'he' is ready to talk.
 Please help - how do I get him to realise that he does need help (I have tried very hard 'not' to make him feel that he is to blame for everything & that I am willing to go to counselling to help change my attitude towards things also - I know I do feed off his anger, which is something I also need to change, but I do not get abusive). 
I really don't know what to do at this stage, am biding my time, hoping that he is thinking about things & trying not to let things get to me too much, but am starting to feel quite depressed and wonder if I 'have' to leave for him to realise there is something wrong....... we have been going around in circles now for about 9 years......and something really HAS to be done to change this situation, is not good for either of us to be in - no matter how much we want this to work.
 I have decided to get counselling for myself either way (whether he decides to come with me or not) so I can at least figure out & practice how to change my reaction to things, however - he really does need help........
 Would appreciate any help - as I'm not sure how to talk to him about this when he feels he is doing 'nothing' wrong?