An RN physically abused my mother in a nursing home.  Then on the phone, she lied to me and to my sister about the necessity of surgery for my mother, and even told me that I could be arrested if I did not allow the surgery.  So I agreed to the surgery.  When I got to the hospital, the surgeon asked me not  to make him do this surgery, because it was only for the nursing staff's convenience.  I refused surgery for her, and she was sent back to the nursing home.  At that time, my husband, because of what was happeneing in the nursing home, tried to get my mother released.  The RN called the police, and told them that he never visited and had no right to try to take my mother out of there.  About that time, the widow of an ex-police chief, whom the officers knew (she was a patient there) came up the hall, called my husband by name and vouched for him.  So adult protective services was called in.  They took charge of my mother and moved her to another nursing home.  Shortly afterwards, my sister took charge of my mother and moved her to another state.
  
Apparently this incident was never investigated, because several years later, when I was in ICU in the hospital, unconscious for several days, that same RN was assigned to me.  My husband did not recognize her.  When I started coming around, my mental state was not so I could recognize her either, or defend myself.  I was there for acute hypercalcemia.  She asked me if I knew what had happened to me, and I told her no.  She told me that I had fallen and hit my head, which had caused me to have a concussion.  That had caused me to have seizures, which had caused me to have a stroke.  The whole left side of my body was in fact parylized at the time.  Then she asked me what my husband had done to me.  She went on to question me at length about his ever having hit me, and managed to actually give me false memories of terrible abuse at his hands.  But I did finally get to the place that I was able to tell her that I did not believe he had done anything to me, and she left me alone.  It seemed as if her interrogation had gone on for days.
 She had fertile ground for convincing me of this because my first husband had in fact physically abused me.  In fact, many years after I escaped, he beat his own 76-year-old mother to death.
 I did report her badgering me to the hospital, and was told that they would not have anybody on staff who had ever been investigated for abuse of any sort.  And they did not investigate then either.
 3 years later, my husband was in ICU at the same hospital.  I walked in, and saw his nurse's name tag.  She has an unususal name.  I thought surely it's not possible that there are two RN's in a town this size with that name, so while she was bathing my husband, I made a comment that only my mother would ever have said.  The nurse laughed, and said "Oh, a little lady I used to take care of in the nursing home used to say that."  I said, "I know.  That was my mother."  At that point, I went to the charge nurse and told her to keep that woman away from us.  By the time I got back to his room, my husband had a different nurse.  For the rest of his stay, I only caught an occasional glimpse of the RN.
 I reported the whole thing again to the hospital, but that woman is still there.  I have been back in ICU since then, and am not convinced that she was not assigned to me again.  This woman is frightening and dangerous, and this has been going on for more than 10 years.
 Obviously I reported the whole thing to the police, when they were called to the nursing home, and to adult protective services.  Surely we are not the only ones who have been attacked by this woman.  Where else can we go?