I am on the verge of committing suicide!  Two years ago I lost my house, immediately after that my business folded up. Because of what has happened I started to feel suicidal.  The only thing that was stopping me was my partner of 26 years.  He told me when I was so depressed and down not to worry too much about it and that we still had each other.  That made me so very thankful that he was around.
 Unfortunately, in August of last year I lost him to liver cancer.  His death sent me to unimaginable depths of depression.  The first few months I was grieving but now the agony and sorrow I am going through has gone to overdrive.  I have lost all hope in life.  To wake up every morning sends me fits of panic and anxiety.
 I am now staying with my parents who have no idea I am gay and that my business partner was actually also my life partner.  I can not grieve in front of them so I cry a lot when alone in the bedroom.  I always try to put on a happy face for them but they have no idea that deep down inside my grief is eating me alive.  To tell them who I really am will leave me homeless as they are devoted catholics and simply do not approve of people like me.
 I am standing on the edge of an abyss and I feel I will jump one of these days.  I am very tired, exhausted and can not think straight.  I am sponging off my parents and am now feeling like a parasite.  I have tried applying for work but they all said I was over qualified.  I just do not know what to do or where to go.  I have been smoking and drinking heavily.  I know the time will come when my parents will ask me what my plans are and frankly I will not have the answer to that.  I just simply have lost the will to live.  I miss my partner so much I weep every night.  He was everything to me, he was my life.  When he died I died with him.  The only difference is his death has a date mine does not because I have repeatedly died everyday.  I do not want to see another morning.  I just simply want to be nothing.
 If any of you out there would give me some sense and are not homophobic, I would truly appreciate it.
 Thanks for taking the time out to read this.