I came to this forum to get some info from people who HAVE schizophrenia, as opposed to just reading medical articles which only give the "typical presentation/symptoms" of schizophrenia. 
 Is it myth or fact that if you're THINKING you may have schizophrenia, that you really DON'T??? I know everything I've read says that most schizophrenics aren't even aware there is anything wrong, & so it's their family who has to convince them to see a doc. I'm hoping this is TRUE, b/c then the very fact that I'm concerned it might be schizophrenia, means it's NOT. ;c)  I started having severe memory problems several months ago, and the bits & pieces that I DO remember, i have a hard time figuring out if it actually happened or was just a dream (b/c it's SO hard to remember that it feels like those dreams taht you wake up from & can only remember bits & pieces of). I have no problem realizing that any given moment is reality, it's just when I think back to things that have happened recently or conversations I've had, they get all jumbled up & don't make any sense (the bits & pieces I DO remember). I've had severe confusion too... where plain english doesn't make sense (I have a history of complicated migraines too, but that was 20 yrs ago). i can look at a sentence sometimes, & it seems like the words are out of order & not arranged in a coherent manner...if that makes any sense. ;)  The only symptoms that I think MIGHT match a diagnosis of schizophrnia, are that I smell smoke (off & on) that I have proven isn't real...b/c I smell it everywhere...& "everywhere" can't be on fire. I also talk to myself...kind of "rehearsing" conversations, but I thought most people did that. LOL  Other than that, the only things I have noticed since my memory problems is that I have lost my sense of humor. Sounds ridiculous, but the people that I know I always get their jokes, suddenly aren't funny anymore (things I see posted on Facebook, that people are laughing at & commenting on... I think to myself "where's the joke??? I don't get it"). I also have noticed that I have become hypersensitive to criticism, & I feel "slighted" by even my husband, family & close friends...when they didn't mean it that way at all. And I get offended so much more easily... I feel like I'm imagining their "slights". I think this could be just a reaction to my recent confusion & memory loss (b/c it's unnerving to not be able to remember daily things, so it COULD be a reaction). I also don't recognize familiar places/people, when I normally never forget a face OR forget a place. 
 My other concern is that it is something neurological like early-onset alzheimer's or parkinsons, something neuro like that (I have had muscle weakness for a few years).  Anyway, thank you for any info you can share, & thank you for letting me post my question. I wish you all the best in your journeys & in treatment.
Thank you!
~Kim