Things have calmed down for now.  The kids and I have been back at the house since Tuesday night. He is staying in the camper trailer at his Dad's.  He DID give me money to pay bills this week but his check was lower than we'd hoped because he was out sick one day last week. I'm meeting him at his work after he gets off this evening to give him some more of this stuff and let him see his kids for a few minutes.  Alex will be at the football game with the band.  
 I wanted to go to the game tonight and see the bands half time show because it's supposed to be a big one, but I don't have the money to pay for me and all the kids to get in, SO, I told Alex if she would text me when the first quarter was over we would go to the school and watch the show from outside the fence.  It's better than nothing and at least I'll be there.
 I applied for TANF but I'm gonna have to tell them nevermind.  They want me to go to some FOUR HOUR class on Monday and that's only the first of TWO interviews PLUS all the other requirements.  I don't have anyone to watch the kids for me, and if I did I have no way to pay them.  I did get a call from the lady that does the subsidized child care and she said I may be able to get in on a priority list simply because I have an open CPS investigation. She has ten days to let me know though.  The childcare part was really the only reason I was going for TANF.  He's still paying the bills so I don't need him to give child support right now.  So, please (those of you who do) pray that I can get the childcare based on the CPS investigation and that I find a job SOON.  
 I managed to get through my final exams the beginning of the week even with everything going on!  My final term grades are:
 Intro to Comm:  97.03
Eng. Comp: 99.50
Keyboarding: 102.65 (still waiting for a few things to be graded)
 So I'm really proud of those grades!  I now have a 2 1/2 week break before the next term starts.  I'm gonna use this time to focus on my job search and getting my house in order.  I'm also trying to list some of the stuff I make so that I can hopefully sell it for a few extra bucks.  
 Haven't heard back from CPS yet but they are probably still in the process of gathering information and interviewing people.