Of course I can't say for sure and I may just be looking for reasons to explain why everything happened the way it did but I suspect that my recent ex has BPD but I thought I would share my experience and see if I suspect right or if my mind is just searching for anything.
 We have been dating for the past year and a half and the entire relationship has been on and off and even when it's on, it's been rocky. He's always been extremely insecure and he creates scenarios in his mind about me and other guys, including exes that have never happened but he becomes fixated on things he's sure that has happened and then pushes me away. It stops him from even kissing me or being close to me in any way. For the first part of our relationship he was literally attached to me. If he wasn't trying to touch me or cuddle with me he would be watching me while I did things around the house. He used to be terrified of not being good enough and of me leaving him for something better. I would spend hours trying to reassure him and comfort him and it would work for a short while. 
 He told me that he has tried to kill himself before when he was younger and I once had to deal with him threatening to do so again. I was at home and he started texting me telling me he hated his life and hated himself and that I didn't love him. He told me about having a knife and using it on this throat. He told me that if I didn't come find him that he might do it but he wouldn't tell me where he was. He sent my cryptic messages that I guess were supposed to hint as to where he was so I had to drive all over town looking for him. When I did find him he was slumped over in his truck with his knife just bawling. I couldn't get him to stop crying. He would look at me scared because I would raise my voice or use a tone that he thought was mean. 
 Any break up that we have had was because he wanted it. It would come out of nowhere. I thought things were fine, we would be having fun with each other and then out of nowhere he would tell me that he wasn't happy and he didn't want to be with me anymore. I would try and get answers but I never got any thing straight. I was always left questioning. We would break up but continue speaking to each other through text. He would tell me that he loves me and wants to be with me but that he just can't. He would tell me that he missed me but couldn't be with me. I always had so many questions as to why and why it couldn't be worked on but I'd never get answers. Just that he loved me and wanted to be with me. Eventually I would get him to talk face to face. No intentions on getting back together but just for answers or something. After each time we would meet in person we would end up getting back together and the cycle would repeat itself. Each time together getting shorter and shorter. 
 He would start arguements and then say that I started them and why was I like this. I would tell him I don't want to fight, that it wasn't worth it, that I just wanted to be happy but he would continue to say things that werent true or that were mean. He would then shut down completely and not talk. I would ask questions and he would completely ignore me. Not look at me. Sometimes just curling into a ball and covering his head. 
 He can never put himself in other peoples shoes and understand why they might be upset at something. He doesn't understand how his behaviour causes certain reactions in people. He has always called me crazy when I get upset at him for being mean or ignoring or anything that any other person would be rightfully upset with. He always thinks that everything is everyones elses fault. That everyone gets mad at him for stupid uncalled for reasons and they aren't. Ive seen him get so angry with his father or mother because they are upset at him for saying he was going to do something and didnt or for saying mean things to them. It's always someone elses fault.
 I've always felt like a prisoner of some sort in this relationship. I couldn't talk to men. I couldn't go out to a bar with friends. I couldn't go anywhere without telling him first because if I didn't he would see my car and lose his mind as if I were lying to him and betraying him in some way. Towards the end of the relationship any rules that we had for each other in the relationship to both feel comfortable only applied to me now. He could go out with his friends but I couldn't. That is exactly what has ended our relationship this time. I went out with my friends on halloween to a bar. To make a long story short I was told that I was never the person I was for the past year and half. That it was all lies. That I cheated on him throughout our entire relationship. So many horrible untrue things. The things he said to me were unthinkable and I had no idea he could be so mean.
 There is too many things to list because there has been so many things. He constantly tells me that he knows there is something wrong with him and I tried to be there for him. When he would almost become another person I tried to work through it and understand that there may be something wrong. I have spent hours upon hours talking, listening, crying, being so so confused, not knowing whether he's lying or telling the truth. His brother has asperger's and for awhile he was convinced that he had that because he was told by his parents that they suspect he does but was never diagnosed. I've read so many things about it and while he does exhibit some symptoms of that, coming across BPD and reading about it and relationships and break ups, it sounds so much like this. 
 I suppose I'm looking for some insight as to whether or not it may be this. There is more info but to type it all out would be the beginnings of a novel so any questions about any of what I wrote I can answer no problems. Any thoughts would be great as I am once again so confused and lost because he still tells me he loves me and misses me but is continuing to push me away but at the same time it's like he's trying to keep me on a leash.