Divorce. The dictionary explains this word as “the legal dissolution of a marriage”, or “A separation between things that were once connected or associated”. It seems rather a cold explanation to me, or it is just the general summary of what people living such an experience have in common with each other. But I would describe it with only one word: failure. 
This is the feeling I got since the day my marriage was over. I failed to keep a promise. I failed to try hard, I failed to understand, to be less selfish. Well, if I have to think it more deeply, I failed to love myself and I gave way to situations that tried to change me, transforming me to a monster for my husband. And this is the moment when everything starts falling apart and that monster gets advantage of you without even realizing it and suddenly you are not the same anymore. But hey, this is not only happening to me, but to him as well. Somehow, you see the monster of him and he sees the monster of you. And bang, slowly the love, the laughs and the happiness you shared with each other is no longer there. No conversation to share, no hugs and kisses to keep you up at night, no desire for intimacy, just two tired people sleeping in one bed, owning their sides of the bed and staying up late thinking with themselves “How is this going to end?” 
But you know it, you feel it that the end is just behind the door, but you refuse to open it, you are afraid to make a step ahead. All your sacrifices, everything you invested in that relationship would be worthless in one second. And what about the love? What about that great feeling that pushed you this far to do great things together, to know and discover yourself, to live life in another dimension, through the eyes of love? I miss that feeling, I miss those times. I miss my husband, I miss that man who introduced me to that wonderful world. Now we’re merely strangers. Two drunk people who just woke up and found themselves in the same bed after a one-night stand and know that this is it. It was time to go. 
I never imagined my life without him, and now I was obliged to do it. Obliged, because no matter what, with all the problems we had, after all the fights, after everything we had gone, my heart still loved him. My heart was telling me that I would always love him, and he would never be a stranger to me. He was my endless love, everything to me. And it hit me right in that moment, when we divorced. That was the end of the dream, my hopes were gone, no optimism at all. What would I do now without him? How would my life go on? How? So many questions floating up in the air around my head, but no answers. I still depended on him. My heart has kept the promise. But I failed. Somehow I didn’t manage myself. Neither did he. Somehow, we grew apart. 
It’s been 6 years since I last saw him and it took me a hell of time to prepare myself for this new life, but not fully recovered. It took time for me to accept the fact that he would always be there, in my thoughts, in my memories, in my actions, in a cry or laugh, even when I fell in love again he was still there. His face was like a tattoo that I couldn’t erase. He represented an important part of my life, a life I miss now and then, a life I return to in order not to make the same mistakes again. Yes, he is my point of reference in my life. 
I don’t care how much he hurt me, or how much I hurt him. I know deep within me that we don’t hate each other. It was a failure for both of us and we owe an apology to each other. But that we do it in silence, through what we have become now. He is happily married again, he treats her like he has never treated me, but as a man must treat his woman. He has a beautiful baby and he is a great father. Yes, he really is the person I once knew. He really is the person who made me fall in love so deeply. And I am about to get married again, struggling through cohabitation and problems it brings with and dreaming about a second chance, a better chance to be happy again and with a dream to build a family and grow old together.