Ok, first of all I m a guy and have been married for 11 years to my wife.  We have two children, 3 and 5 years of age.  I am not an angel and in no way am I perfect. I have never hit my wife and I have a hard time raising my voice.  Even when arguing, I do not yell and scream.  We have been in counseling for the better part of 7 years.  My wife is controlling, suspicious and has an anger issue.
 I have put myself into a situation to where my wife controls the finances and I have no idea what is happening.  I have asked to be involved in this, but she has not let me be a part.  Our counselor has even tried to talk her into it.  Everytime we go to counseling she attacks me and/or my actions and starts yelling and crying.  The therapist has asked her to keep it down over ten times because she was interrupting other peoples sessions.  Whenever she does not get her way she yells at me an starts crying.  She yells at me in front of our children and I do my best to stop the situation.  She has hi me in front of our children and she justified it by saying I deserved it.  Recently I was napping on the sofa after working in the yard for about three hours and I woke up to a sharp pain in my mouth.  She had walked up to me and smash me in the mouth with a full water bottle.  
 My wife is jealous and calls me often, sometimes up to 10 times per day just to check on me.  When she calls she wants to know where I am, what I am doing and who I am with.  I feel like I am giving a status report.  I used to travel for work and this is when it got really bad.  She would call at odd times and demand that I stop everything and tell her where I was and who I was with.  When I did not comply I paid for it by being yelled at told that I was making the marriage more difficult.
 I had to get an AMEX for work and I opened a bank account to run my expense reports through.  She took the credit card statements and ordered bank statements on the account to spy on me.  She almost got prosecuted by the bank because they caught her falsifying information. 
 I realize I am married, but I have no freedom.  If I take a walk, then she thinks I am up to something.  If I wanted to go out with a friend, she would make life hard on me.  I have no friends and I have no freedom.  I went to the auto-parts store while she was gone and she grilled me three days later on where I went.  I am in individual therapy and am getting help.  I know what I need to do, but I lack the ability to do it right now.  I love my children more than anything and I enjoy the time I spend with them.  My kids complete me.
 My wife wants sex all of the time.  I know what you are thinking, but I am really not attracted to her anymore.  I can not stay aroused because I think about how she treats me.  I went t the Dr got Viagra and that did not even work.  
 I know this is long, but I would love to hear from some of you and get your thoughts.  I have never cheated on my wife and I would never dream of doing so.  My wife and I both work, but she gets off work at 3.  I can't even go into her lack of respect for me or our house.  I dread coming home and seeing her, but love seeing my kids.
 Need help.
jander