Hi. I have been a mess most of my life. I spent entirely too long living with mental illness without going for help. Anyway when I was about 21, I was diagnosed with major clinical depression. I felt a bizarre sense of relief knowing that there really was something wrong with me.
 So I've been dealing with it for 32 years now. There have been periods of strength and periods of absolute despair. I've been hospitalized 3 times over the years, but nothing worse than a 3 day hold. These days I am still struggling but fairly stable, although I am in a very hopeless place. Kind of feels like after all this time I'm still right where I started.
 However I am currently a caregiver for my father and so I am living in service and that is a game changer. I have no fear about the near future as I have someone who is relying on me and I have no choice but to be there. (Well I do have a choice... but I'm making the compassionate, selfless choice). The time I am spending with him is precious (although emotionally draining).
 Here is the reason I am posting. Obviously having had depression for so long, I've done a lot of research on it. My therapist says I know more about the nuts and bolts of it than any other client she has had.
 That is all well and good, but when I learned about BPD all sorts of lights lit up. There was so much "been there, done that" realizations that I was knocked for a loop. Not that major depression doesn't apply as well, I am just certain in my soul that BPD describes me very well.
 The problem is that my current therapist isn't a big fan of my discovery, in the sense that 1. She doesn't agree with it (and may not even concur about the disorder existing), and 2. She is a strong cognitive behaviorist so ultimately she doesn't think it matters. "What are you going to do about it?" is her mantra.
 Now I don't know if it really does matter in that sense. What I do about it is the thing that matters. However there is a big part of me that wants my troubles identified and labeled. I don't know why that is. I just feel better being able to say I have BPD as well as depression.
 But beyond just my current therapist, I seem to get a lot of resistance to the concept of BPD. Almost as if is one of the psuedo maladies that seem to have cropped up ever since drug companies were able to advertize on the TV.
 I guess the bottom line I'm looking for is, what do I do to get some resolution? Do I seek out a second opinion? (Would I just be looking for somebody to confirm my belief rather than tell the truth?). Does it matter that I haven't had an official diagnosis? As far as I can tell, CBT is a recommended course of treatment for BPD anyway (as well as meds), so does it make any difference if I do or don't also have BPD (along with the depression)? I am doing the work.
 As you probably can tell I am very very confused. But the positive part of all of this is that I have found a forum in which to discuss the symptoms and characteristics of the disorder, which I experience regardless of the diagnosis. I only hope that exploring this area as well as continuing the work on the depression yields some better results.
 I would like to be hopeful again... someday