I, too, wasn't so sure about which category to put this under..but I'm sure it's more than just verbal abuse..
 My parents fight a lot. And then they go about displacing, putting their anger all on us. But they hate us, too.
No matter how much they tell other people that they "love" their children (us), they don't. I've lived all my life being yelled at, called "worthless ****" etc. Cursed both in spanish and in english. Either way, it hurts a lot. As I am typing now, my mother is yelling.  Not a day goes by without her yelling bad words at us, calling us worthless. And my father has said pretty bad things..
My father does not care about my sister's education. He was willing to go to Key Largo and buy $200 bucks worth of fireworks instead of giving her money for her college text books. Everytime my parents yell, I cry. And what's bad, is I don't have any real friends. I suffer from a social phobia, I don't even like being around people and I am ashamed of being around my parents. They've hit my little sister pretty hard several times and everytime I would defend her, my mother would yell at me and say it's none of my business and to "shut the **** up" or "shut your mouth..I SAID SHUT UP!!" etc. 
 Sister: "Dad! I need to finish my essay for english! This is very important!"
Father: "I don't care about your school!"
 Mother: "You are so worthless" "No sirven para nada, mocosos de mierda!" I remember how she would threaten to knock my teeth out if I didn't shut up.
 Question is..What should I do? I'm losing my sanity everyday..All my friends are online friends from around the country. They can't help me. My only friends in reality don't believe me and basically think I complain too much and/or making this stuff up. 
Just the other day, my sister messeged me, telling me what our mother told her about my father..
 "He doesn't want you guys. He was looking for you guys so that you can hang out with those boys, get pregnant, and throw you guys out because he doesn't want to take responsibility for you girls anymore."
And I would believe that because he pampers my brother a lot but treats my sisters and I like dog ****.
My mother treats us like slaves. I was cooking and cleaning the other day, and she called me lazy. 
 I'm sick of hearing "you're worthless" over and over in my head. I've been to a psychologist but she seemed biased..and then they referred me to a psychiatrist, prescribing me anti-depressants. I quit the whole thing because no one helped. I'm tired of it all. I'm only 17 years old and I'm questioning myself, why did I have to make it this far? Why couldn't I have just died in the womb or something? I hate my parents with a passion. And I mean it. 
Even on my graduation day..my parents fought. I could never forgive them. Not ever. I'm scared because I do not know what to do. And I feel as though I won't live too long with all the yelling and bad things they've implanted in my head.