background info: off and on with my bf for about 5yrs. he just recently confessed that he thinks about suicide often. I told his mother about it. dont think she even did anything. I told her again but still dont thunk she said much to him. he still talks about it almost everyday. this morning he even said he just doesn't wanna be "here" anymore. 
 I myself have been diagnosed with mdd but I also have panic disorder which I think just brought on the depression. I wasn't aware that my bf had it since before we even met but its really bad. he talks about killing himself often. I've tried talking to his mom. but nothing was done. he refuses to get help. im starting to get overwhelmed because if we fight he beings it up. like makes our arguement more of a reason to take his own life. I really do wanna be with him but im afraid to screw up in any little way. we've been known to vet into it pretty badly.  it hasn't been as bad as its gotten before but bad enough to make him not wanna live anymore. I just feel like I cant help him, I have to watch everything I say and do and even his own mom doesn't help him. he sent me a message basically saying that he was.going to get it done one day. I showed his mom and she said shed check in him but nothing happened. she even texted me saying that he was ok when really he had also been texting me saying he was still gonna do it. I just feel ao helpless for him. I think its even starting to trigger my anxiety. today I just feel heavy and like so uncomfortable.  I just cant pinpoint why. I just want him to want to get better. but he doesn't. I asked him if we can go see someone together since he won't get himself help. he said no. but then said he'd go with. e to talk to someone as long as its just about me. idk what to do. im starting to lose it. I want my life and future with this guy but im scared that one day I might get a call or God for id I be the one to find the man I live dead because he IA just so unhappy. idk how I could live on without him. idk how I can continue to have him in my life knowing that he doesn't even wanna be in his own life. I feel like if he goes, I go. but I know that wont make anything.g better. I just need help. like I really really do. 
   p.s please excuse my typeos. my internet and keyboard are really cooperating