Molested Behind Closed Doors: After math
10 hours
I'm not sure where to even begin to what has happened.  I ask myself everyday if this really happened to me because of where I am today and the choices I'm making.   
 When I was a child I was molested by my father. Even right now having flash backs just makes me want it to go away.  I don't remember at what age it started, but I know it has stopped when I went into middle school unless I blanked that out.  I remember him cuddling with me like any parent would with their child, and he would rub my arm just for comfort which turned out to touching above.  Thinking about it makes me cringe.  I remember he would try to move down there but I would purposely wake up just so he wouldn't.  I thought to myself at the time well, what was that about?  At that time I didn't think anything of it, I just felt uncomfortable.  I don't remember how many times he's done it all I remember was after it happened.  How I felt when he did it and even as I'm typing right now I'm fighting with myself trying to think what I did or what happened.  My mind is scattered right now making me think that if he's still to this day not behind bars then maybe I'm making this up.  After he touched me I was never the same.  How I looked at him was never the same.  What was funny was I still wanted to be a good daughter and ignore what was happened.  I could not ignore what I was feeling I didn't tell my Mom at the time and I kept it to myself the whole time.  I felt as if my Dad saw me as his own property, the way he looked at me when we were in church when I sat down next to a guy.  How he would hug me and hold me tight and as he would hug me he would squeeze me enough to feel his junk on me.  I remember taking a shower and my Dad came in to go to the bathroom.  I didn't know what to do!  I remember freezing up and not moving hoping and praying he wouldn't see me.  I didn't realize what he was doing until I felt a cold breeze after he left.  My Dad was slowly opening up my shower door while he was sitting on the toilet.  I cried and cried in the shower.  I think I was a teenager then because I was more aware of what was happening.  The very worst one ever and it brings me to tears every time and I don't like saying out loud let alone type it.  I don't remember how we even got into his bed, but we did and it involved my younger sister.  To make short and to quickly get this mental picture out of my head is he made us touch him.  I'm so mad at myself for my younger sister having to go through that and I feel it was my fault for letting it happen.  I hate myself everyday for letting it happen.  I wrote in my red Hello Kitty diary and left it out in my room for someone to find out what has happened.  I was hoping someone would find out that way and not by me.  For some reason I didn't want to get my Dad in trouble.  He didn't threatened to kill me or tell me you'll hurt my feelings if you tell anyone he didn't say anything.  I don't know why I didn't say anything!  Maybe I was scared or maybe I didn't want to disappoint him.  I feel like such a looser and it's my fault because I could've stopped him!  I'm mad at myself for not doing anything about it!  As I got older, I was feeling more aware of what has happened which led me to a silent mental meltdown.  I went on with  my life as a teenager.  Kept it silent.  Never told anyone about it until I met my now husband.  He has helped me through everything and was so understanding at age 17!  Can you believe that?  He was the first person ever that I told because it was affecting my life.  Back then I kept it all inside and I guess you could say that my boyfriend made me feel that it wasn't my fault.  At that time, I showed my Dad how much I hated him and my Mom was wondering why.  They thought I was acting like a typical teenager hating their parents and want to be wisked away by their boyfriend.  I believe when I turned 18 I planned to move out with a surprise.  I couldn't take it anymore with being in the same house as him.  I rememeber fighting with my Mom and with her asking me why I hate my Dad so much and that was pretty much the opening right there.  My Mom was in shock and she was trying to cancel out everything trying to figure out anything that this couldn't be true.  I even showed her my child hood diary or the entries I put for when my Dad did those things to me.  I told her I was moving out that day.  I was expecting my Mom to be open arms and to be there for me and hold me a love me but she wasn't.  My Moms exact words were, while she was crying was,"I don't know who to believe, the love of my life, my husband, or my daughter."  I was shocked and devasted from her response.  My own mother not believing me!  Why don't you just stab me in the heart!  After that I moved out and didn't speak to them for over 2 years!  My mom would call every now and then begging my boyfriend to convince me to come home, but I died the day she told me she didn't believe me.   
 Time has passed and we started talking again 2 years later when I had meningitis.  I thought by then my Dad and Mom would fess up about was has happened but of course, none of them did.  We all acted as if nothing happened!  My Mom wanted us to live like the happy family she wanted it to be.  I was still around acting like nothing happened but I felt like the black sheep.  My younger sister knew what happened, but didn't say much, my older brother doesn't know why I left and still to this day does not know.  I felt as if I was and still am living a double life.  One as a daughter and one as a victim.  I didn't say anything because I didn't want to ruin anymore than I already did.  So, for years nothing was said and done.  I was continuing to fight with myself mentally and to this day.  Back then it was pretty bad to when I seriously need professional help.  I talked to my Mom to let her know I needed professional help and she said we can get help just not in the military.  I forgot to mention that my Dad was Senior Cheif in the U.S. Navy and so my Mom didn't want me to seek counseling within the military.  Another stab in the heart.  Of course my Mom never followed through with it.  My past really put a damper on my relationship and now my marriage, but my husband is still here by my side.  I love him for that.  My husband knowing all this and very angry with everything that is going on but I'm begging him to not do or say anything to my parents.  That is a lot to ask of someone.   
 I still am around my parents but we're living the fake life.  Over a year ago I talked to my Mom again about what happened and went back to what I felt about her.  Nothing phased her she just confirmed that she doesn't believe me and that its all about her and shes in it for herself.  This is an long ongoing story in which I should write a book about.  Now I have 2 kids and I'm even more scared to bring them around my parents.  Thinking that history will repeat itself with  my Dad and I can't leave my kids with my Mom because I don't trust her.  Shes' living the life thinking for herself and still with my Dad she might leave the kids alone with her.  Uhh that's a long story too.  There's more to my story, but I don't want to get into detail with that because I'm going through it as we speak.  I feel like I'm a crazy person because I'm still around my parents.  They see my boys but with strict supervision.  I don't know what to do anymore..  I want to cut them off completely but lets say current events have changed.  Help me lord!
 Am I really crazy??