I'm a 51 year old female who has been dealing with Fibromyalgia for 15 years without a whole lot of success.  I also have a lot of problems with restless leg syndrome which is not limited to the evening hours in my case.  A few years ago, I was diagnosed as having a Borderline Personality Disorder.  I was told that the only successful way of treating it was to attend DBT training for 3 hours each week.  No other treatment was ever discussed with me.  I couldn't attend the sessions due to there only being held during my work hours.  
 My inability to control my emotions has plagued me throughout my entire life.  I really do need to find a way to treat this and get it under control so that I can function better.  I am currently not working and would have the time to attend the DBT therapy, but now insurance is a problem. 
 Additionally, I have recently started to undergo testing for ADD.  This never previously occurred to either me or my therapist until I found that I just wasn't able to function in yet another new job.  No matter how hard I tried, I just could not remember things, was incredibly unorganized, lacked concentration and made stupid mistakes.  I have always attributed these symptoms to Fibromyalgia in the past.  Although the ADD testing is not yet completed, from what has been, I feel that finally the pieces might all fit together  Could it be too much to hope for that this time there may be an answer for me? 
 Now, my question is this:  What are the treatment options when you have all of the following? Fibromyalgia, Restless Leg Syndrome, Borderline Personality Disorder, and either ADD or ADHD?  Does anyone know?  I already take Prozac, Flexeril, Hydrocodone, and Mirapex.  I have tried Gabapentin and Lyrica but the side effects I experienced led me to discontinue them.  I want to be able to do a bit of research prior to the time when the doctor just tells me to try this medicaiton or that.  I'ld like to read up on the side effects and/or drug interations of treatments as well as look into what is affordable.  There may actually be nothing that is affordable when dealing with the prospect of purchasing Mirapex without insuranance.  That in itself at the dosage I require will cost about $370 per month.  
 So, what do other adults take for ADD/ADHD?  Can anyone tell me?