I have been married for last 6 months.I have had an arranged marriage.Everything was great during the courtship period. My in-laws i.e. FIL,MIL and BIL were very open minded and non judgemental about things. I had stayed with my inlaws  before marriage twice ( my maternal home and inlaws's home is in different states).They made me comfortable and at home.My husband's family is a business family with a sole source of income - their industry.
We had a big fat Indian wedding and post wedding things started changing. in laws had financial problems and expected to click projects also did not work out.My husband during the courtship has put me in the habit of 24*7 attention and now coz of his problems he started being self absorbed. we did not live like newly weds. in addition there was a lot of family politics involved. there were fights and cold wars between the other members of the family. i was very disturbed with all this since i come from a secure and loving family. inspite of all i was the one to solve all the differences between the mother-son, father son and brothers. My inlaws were appreciative and supportive about everything related to me. mom in law also tried to advice my husband against being self absorbed and asked him to spend more time with me. MIL and FIL had huge fights every night and almost every morning MIL used to cry in front of me while i used to console her. In all this backdrop, with the household fights, financial problems, new city, no financial independance, no friends, no social life and self absorbed husband, i had my share of outbursts with my husband. he was the one who took the backfoot most of the times and our fights never left our room. 
we had planned to have a child once we move into a new house, but the planning failed and i conceived. my husband, MIL and FIL had mixed feeling with the news since they were worried by the financial problems but my younger BIL went to the extent of calling me on fone and asking me to abort the child(I got the news of pregnancy when i was at my maiden home).i was shocked. my parents were upset and my mom lost her cool when she talked to my husband on phone. the next day my FIL called my dad to talk about separation telling that my husband said we keep fighting with each other all the time.All of us were shocked and me and my mom went to my MIL's elderly uncle who was involved in our marriage from day 1 to ask for advice. He got very upset with my in laws and said forcing for abortion is a crime and they could be imprisoned for it.my mom being a lawyer nodded in acknowledgement that she knew the laws. MIL's uncle ,I dont know in what manner transferred this info to my in laws, my FIL kept calling my dad and telling him that they are just coming to our place and didnt turn up for a month or so. i was in depression all this while and when i talked to my husband on fone, he said my mom threatened to put their family in jail whereas there was nothing of this sort.he also told me that the news has spread in all his family and all his relatives were blaming him for doing this to me. My mom called my MIL to clear things only to listen to her blames and accuses that I was badmouthing against my own inlaws. in all this mess neither my husband nor my inlaws were even sensitive to the fact that i was pregnant and had done nothing to deserve what i was getting. 
finally after 2 months my husband and inlaws came to my city but instead of coming to our place they went straight to a lawyer and called us there insisting the lawyer was a counseller and a mediator. there my husband said he does not want to live with me as we are not compatible with each other. i felt like a use and throw thing. he did not think of compatibility issues before making me pregnant and now he made me feel like a s*** .I cudnt belive he was the same person who i had shared innumerable dreams about raising our child.i cudnt belive my MIL was the same person who supported me against her son and my FIL who always said i was his daughter. 
i wud also like to add that inspite of all the problems that i faced in my husband's home i never complained even to my parents about it.i am their only child, highly educated and independent. I chose to safeguard my husband's respect by not telling about the financial crisis even to my parents. i chose to stand by him even in his bad days and now when i need him the most he does not even pick up my calls. my mom, maasi, mama and cousin are lawyers. they are of the opinion that my in laws are scared coz all the laws favour women and they actually believe that my family will land them up in jail. it is highly ridiculous and unbelievable.
I have decided that no matter what I am going to keep my baby and am 4 months pregnant now.
my family is of the opinion that once the fear of legal action goes away from their minds, my husband is bound to come back to me. they also have to say that my in laws are right now in critical situation regarding finance and this is why they may be behaving this ways coz everyone feels they arent bad outright.
what i am utterly confused is that should i stay married to a person who is spineless, cant trust me from the kind of relationship we had and the type of person i am and cant make his family understand that I am not at fault anywhere.
 I know i love him a lot and that is one reason why i cudnt even think of abortion. 
but shud i give him a  second chance inspite of he not being there with me and our kid when we need him the most and to add on he is still not picking up my calls or answering my msgs.
and if he simply cuts off completely even after the baby is born, shud i initiate for divorce.
i love him and dont want a divorce but i dont want to lose on my dignity and self respect as well. 
please help me