ok so back in March I experienced what I believe to have been a semi-tramatic experience. I witnessed my best friend's dad knock his tooth out (I am 20). After the incident he fled as the police arrived on the scene. After some time the police left and his family and I were alone in his house. It was me, my friend, his brother, and his mom. At one point my friend said that he had a gun and could possibly come back and use it. He was extremely intoxicated so I bought it. I grabbed a fire poker and a sword and was ready to go haha. Inside I was freaking out the whole time, the thought of what to do was so overwhelming. Anyways I eventually decided to remove myself from the situation and leave.
 This happened on a wednesday. The following Monday I had a break from reality. I originally went to my parents house for my stepmoms bday but by the time I got there I thought they were going to do some kind of ritual on me. I was very delusional the rest of the night. At one point I thought that my memory was messed up and thought up many variations to what happened that night. The following morning my parents took me to the hospital and why I was there I totally lost it and even thought I was in pergatory at one point. The next day my sanity returned but I still had some delusions in tact about the night it happened (I thought my friend was dead). After a week I returned home and things began to get back to normal, Except the fear of going back into that state remained. While I was in there I remember the doctor bringing up schizophrenia but I left with a diagnosis of psychosis NOS.
 I really want to get off the anti psychotic medication but have been freaking out about the possibility of schizophrenia. It seems that every symptom I read of I remember experiencing at some point EXCEPT for hearing voices and hallucinations.
 Im to the point where I cant tell if the things I observe about myself are real or just a result of excessive fear.
ptsd? schizophrenia? is there something wrong with me or is it all in my head?