So.. I have a post on my first time quitting methamphetamine, and someone brought up my father. I didn't know where else to go for advice.
He bribed me into trying it when I was 19. I played with it for about a week, then he went to prison for roughly two years. Right before he ended up getting out of prison for a fed charge, I had tries it again with my detoxing boyfriend. Then again about a week before I broke up with him I was sucked into this drug house and I had my own dealers. I let them go with my number change.
But now, after a little less than a year back in prison, he's out and using a hell of a lot of that ****. He has a drug test Monday so with what's going on I hope he fails. When I was nine he had me so entirely brainwashed I truly believed no matter what happened around me it was my fault. He bought me candy and used my grandparents money? Not like I asked for it or even could take the money with me that young, but when they found out he said it was my fault. Just an example. This went on to such extremes by the time I was ten I had to see a therapist for months. Then every guy I was with afterwords for some reason was almost the same way or worse. Since he has been out this time he has started getting it directly from the maker, so it's uncut and.. idek any words. And he brings me insane large amounts to me daily, before now stopping was easy. I've never had severe withdrawals. But I'm the kind of person who can't so no to drugs. Crazy thing tho, three days ago he had basically kidnapped me. Telling me he was wasting all of his money on some unspecialized ***** (me) and various reasons my family hates me. (I never ask for the drug) he just went on and on about how really everything in his life is my fault and how everyone feels the same (under the influence of drugs he's basically planting that seed) he took us to the bridge near my home, and screamed how no one would care if he killed both us us, and slammed into the concrete. Played it off before it was too late, and sung into the 7/11 yelling at me because I wanted something to drink. I hadn't said a word by this point, just shaking and crying like I haven't before (tho this is fairly normal just not to the extent.) After that he came back and threatened me to stop crying and be happy. The only way I could get back home was to play nice, to suddenly be a kid again. Idk how I did it but he let me out. I had texted my fiance the second I was taken and when i i walked through the door I just broke down. My fiance fell asleep after replying to my kidnap message, said I should have expected my dad would do that (his mom has also stated how it's my fault I've been raped and molested by five years old by family.) More my fault kinda stuff. So I lost it. I tried to get my dads number blocked and it couldn't happen with my plan. So I tried ignoring him. He called roughly 70 times a day with well over 100 texts back and forth on his fault or my fault. I couldn't even use my phone with how he was blowing it up. Eventually I had to call back, and he decided more drugs was the answer (he bought me off as a kid.) And since then if I don't text him back immediately or call Hm, it's another blowing up my phone. I'm trying to quit meth and I keep begging him not to bring it because I decided three says ago after he tried ******* kill me. But he still brings it. I know that if ibtrybfor law enforcement I'd have to tell them about EVERYTHING. He'd be back in prison and if anyone found out I'd been using I could have my life destroyed. By family and government, but I can't go into that part. I'm scared for my life, I'm scared of my addiction, I'm praying for him to go back to prison. I don't know how to get away from him. I'm just flat out scared. 
I know this was long, I didn't know how I could shorten it. But if anyone has the time to read or any advice they could give I would be so grateful. Anyone I could bring it up to only says it is my fault as well, but I never asked for drugs or even him back in my life. 
I need him to go away.