In April this year I was diagnosed with Sinus Tachycardia and a mega high blood pressure.  In December I was perfectly healthy, heavily pregnant and about to give birth.  After the birth, I was fine, I was fine and dandy in January, then by February I started to get sick.  It began with a wisdom tooth infection which was treated with antibiotics that did not agree with me, I wasn't allergic but they knocked me for six I had hot flushes, generalised itching (a crawling sensation), I was exhausted, weak, got vertigo and I couldn't eat.  I then developed a womb infection during this period.  I was confused because I was on antibiotics when I got the infection in my womb.  My GP said it was caused by an overgrowth of a natural bacteria because my antibiotics had killed off the other bacterias that control it.  
 Anyway, just after that I felt terrible, I was tired, still had the itching, had joint pains, aches, my joints would go red with the pain.  I was terrified.  I had blood tests done and they were normal.  All normal.
 But I still couldn't eat - I couldn't get food down, I kept getting it stuck in my throat.  I then got some kind of sinusitis in April but my temperature was going below normal all the time.  I had not noticed that I had lost over 2 stone in weight since the Feb, and my friends were getting worried.  I was constantly in a panic over my health.  I would chain smoke daily, not eat, I would drink alcohol to calm myself.  I was looking grey too, I'd just had a 3 week long period postpartum too which didn't help.  
 I was getting sores in my mouth and all sorts, so I went to the GP, he took my bp and it was dangerously high, so the then checked my pulse which was also very fast, but I was breathing normally.  I was flushed in the face and hands, I felt hot but my temp was normal.  I was quickly admitted for investigation.  I had lots of blood work done and it all came back normal a few hours later and I was sent home having been told that I had a psychiatric problem (I do have a phobia of illnesses and I was anxious all night).  But the tachycardia and palpitations never calmed down.  They became continual.  All day long, and they would never calm down.  My rate would be over 90 resting and well over 140 from just getting up and walking.  I would be sat down writing and it would be racing constantly. I would get really bad PVC/PACs while eating, it was horrible.
 I was put on beta blockers in May/June and was referred to a cardiologist.  Had an echocardiogram which was normal apart from a RBBB, which I am told is normal for some young women.  I had a 48hr holter, also normal.  And was being told that my problem, again, was psychiatric.  But more symptoms started.  
 I noticed neurological symptoms like inability to concentrate, could not speak the right words at times, could not type properly (I'm normally a fast typist), I was getting visual problems (tracking, auras, halos, spots, floaters), I had numbness and tingling, all sorts.  I was terrified.  I asked for a neuro referral, but instead I got a general diagnostic neuro exam from the GP who said I was fine.  My pupils became unequal in dimmed light also, one eye being very dilated and the other normal.  I was told that it COULD be the tablets.
 I am now having more visual problems, blurring, some double vision when I look at things close up, my eyes retain bright images like a negative.  I am still being told its stress.
 It all started when the following happened in my life:  My best friend died, I was scared of giving birth, I was and still am in massive debt, put pressure on myself to start work a couple of weeks after the birth, I was arguing daily with hubby, I was terrified of what was happening to me.  I had according to my GP - far too much stress for a person to handle.  All the stress was going on at the same time.  I was constantly in fight/flight mode.  
 I know this is a long post, but after EXTENSIVE blood work - thyroids, other hormones, blood counts, cultures, serum levels, ANA, ACE, blah blah etc... all was normal.  They say it is the effects of stress, depression and anxiety.
 My question is this - can Stress really do all this?  I do know that my ex husband is experiencing the exact same as me, as is another friend of mine who has ME, but she also gets anxiety.  She is on beta blockers.  Ex hubby is not but he complains of the same as me.  He is getting sinus tachy, high blood pressure etc... and he is under lots of stress too.
 I have seen more than one GP for second opinions, I am not getting that far, they all insist it is anxiety and stress.