To make this shorter than it would be, i see a mental doctor i forget what kind of doctor he is, but i've been seeing him for 9 years!!!!!! Lets just say if he think i am doing fine i see him every 2 months now i am seeing him on the 25th which is this Friday i havent seen him for 2 months!!!!!! He did put me in the hospital once for depression, and once for cutting and self- harm i've been out of the hospital for 1 year now!!!!! But late last month i did something that i probably shouldnt have done............... i felt i wasnt getting enough attention from my parents or people outside of home friends at school ect!!!!!! It felt like i was being seen but people were seeing though me, if thats even possible!!!!!! So i got really upset one night after school and i rode my bike across the street to the house my dad was selling i went inside and i was crying, and than went out, rode my bike back home got my jacket and helmet i rode my bike a mile away from my neighborhood i was probably gone for 20 minutes at the least, thats what my dad said!!!!!! that night i pretty much spent in my room writing and i was writting something NOT good!!!! i was thinking to myself " How can i get MORE attention and have people see me, NOT though me"???!!!!! So i wrote a 4 page later to my teachers telling them when i rode my bike a mile away from my house and a was gone for a while and i got raped!!!! WHICH DID NOT HAPPEN!!!!!! The reason i did that to my teachers was because they would at least pay attention to me 24/7 and my peers would notice me, which they did for like 15 minutes but that was it!!!!! But i knew that my teachers would contact my parents and i was thinking my parents will pay A LOT more attention to me know, they didnt because i guess my mom found me riding me bike back home SLOW, which if i did get raped i would be riding me bike FASTER than FAST!!!!!! My mom tryed talking to me about it when i got home, she told me she knows that it's not true and that she was spying on me, and i only had about 45 minutes to tell the truth and why i did it!!!!! So about 15 20 minutes later thats what i did, i told her that i needed more attention from her and my dad and my peers, well my parents probably did pay a bit more attention to me after that but NOT a lot!!!!!! 
 Now could i get hospitalized for that??? The last time i was in the hospital one kid said that he was being hospitalized because he lyed!!!!! He said that he was going to kill himself at school but he said I AM KIDDING, i would NEVER kill myself!!!!!! But he still got hospitalized................
 So i dont know i guess it's really a 50/50 chance that i will or not!!!!!!