He always accused me of being emotionally unstable-yet I couldn't do or say anything correct. It was always push/pull, cold-hot, I'm sick of you, come here. I would get angry, but I never hit, scream or fight dirty. Every time we argued, I felt like he picked the fight and then would bring up everything thing wrong I had done in the past. He is unemployed and nothing works out for him. I do rather well. I always felt like I was not acting like myself in many ways. He would ignore my calls and dismiss me all the time. Whenever I would start to pull away, he would suck me back in. I didn't get it. I would try to break up all the time-and he would find a way to manipulate me to stick around. He would always accuse me of cheating and if I looked at another guy, he would get jealous. I felt like he was messing around but he would never want to talk about it-and I was ok with things benign open. He dumped me out of the blue and I was pretty hurt. He told our friends things that were personal about me. He made me out to be a monster. 
 I didn't get it and I was devastated. I tried so hard and it was never enough. We started contact and he offered his help- I thought, "OK, thats fine we are not together anymore and I guess we can be friends." He acted like nothing happened and he made subtle passes. I was shocked. I thought he wanted to get back together, but I didn't trust him yet. My head was confused again. 
 I broke into his emails. Over 6,000-all looking for sex. On my birthday, holidays, when I was sitting across from him and after he had sex with me. The account was started in 2011.  One email (in an older account-stated that when we were first stated dating, he didn't like how close I was getting to him." Yet, he happily inserted himself into my life and with my family. There were so many times when I wanted this to end and he would wiggle himself back in. I would work "on myself" and he would treat me like crap. Now he is coming over tomorrow to help again. I know a lot more now. I have no idea what he wants from me. Why would he do this when I was such a "monster?"The only thing I did wrong was trust somebody and believed that  they loved me-it was all fake. I don't know why out of the 6,000+ I was the victim. He found a replacement when it really went on the rocks. It didn't work out. I'm more detached now, but still in a position where he can suck back in-if thats his motive. 
 what does this man want?