Hello, Princess2000 (as well as anyone else who can help) ! It's a pleasure to meet you!
  Seeing that you worked for CPS here in Texas (my fiance and I are also Native Texans...Dallas, to be exact), I have a situation, well, my fiance has.
 SITUATION:
 When my fiance (who is now in the middle of a divorce) married his soon-to-be-ex-wife, he learned that she had three other children that were taken from her by CPS due to abuse and neglect. This was confirmed by both the grandmother who have taken the boys in as well as her former friend in whom the grandmother confided.
 My fiance has a child with her (c. 2000).
 He left her in 2010. The child is still with her.
 The grandmother and the former friend, as well as my fiance, fear for the safety of the child due to her verbal abuse...as do I, which is why I am writing you.
 My questions are these:
 1) Is she allowed to keep that child in her care as she had three others (who are now all adults) removed from her? The reason I ask this is because both the custodial grandmother and her former friend saw the appalling condition the children were in. One child (the oldest) had maggots in his sores. Another child (the middle child) was thrown in to the fire ant bed. (I could only hope these were just sick jokes, but the grandmother confirmed the conditions)
 2) My fiance left him with her because she threatened to press kidnapping charges against him if he did. (I told him she was lying, but he believed her. At the time, he thought that she could keep the child with her.)
 3) Does he need to sue her for custody or can CPS help him get custody of the child, seeing that three children were removed form her and were never returned?
  He just needs to know what he can do and can't do...as well as what she can and can't do.
  If it were up to me, I would call CPS and the police IMMEDIATELY.
  So, please advise...so I can tell him what he needs to do. As I have so stated, this is of a 911 magnitude!!
  Thanking You All In Advance,
 Kaminoyousha