Here it goes time to tell my story. I have been with my husband 9 yrs and married 2 yrs. I love my husband very much. About three weeks ago he ran off with another woman or girl as I like to call her. She is 20 and he is 30. Anyways, since then I never have given up on our marriage nor our love. I am a true believer in God and so I pray everyday and I have began to go to church on a regular.
 My husband use to believe too. But lately I am not sure he still has faith. What I can tell you is since he has left he hasn't been happy. This girl is nothing like me, nor does she show as much love as me. She has an ex that still is trying to come around and it maybe due to her two kids, but yet she hates my husband to contact me. We have no kids but we have alot to do to make this seperation official. I guess she is just being cautious.
 Anyways, on Sunday at 2 am I recieved a call from him. He was crying and upset. He told me he always loved me and missed me and was sorry things turn out like they did. When I tried to talk him into coming home he would just say no and how ever everything turned out to remember he always loved me. Then today he texted me asking about our account which I can't get my name off of without him being there. Well, I let him know this and said we needed to setup a day. He kept changing the subject and then he said he was working. To try to make this shorter, I believe that he isn't wanting the seperation and that is why he won't come take care of it.
 The next thing that got me today was that he texted a list of everything he ever has done wrong in our relationship and said that now I didn't have to deal with it and that he hoped I find someone to love me right. Well this made me cry and I want him back so I was honest. I told him I wouldn't be happy without him and that I believed in him. This whole conversation taking place on the new girls phone. He then told me we couldn't do that on that phone. He also said that he was going to have a crappy day because of it.. I told him to erase the messages or to let her know it was all me. That I am sorry but he still my husband.
 His response was no I am going to let what happens happens...lol now her ex is texting for her to call him. I told him I would never disrespect him like that. The whole conversation was weird.
 I believe he doesnt care about the relationship with this girl if he is willing to let her read the text or not tell her it was me. I also believe he isn't interested in seperation since he won't go through with the necessary steps. I found out that her and him fight all the time. That he is very jealous and she doesn't care. They work together and one of their co workers, has said that it just seems like they don't know how to get along. 
 Ok so now that you have the most recent facts...what are your opinions on everything? I still believe that our love was a great thing and a true love. I believe in my husband and I can see us being together one day. Happier then we were before. Does anyone know how I can win him back? Does anyone know prayers or anything that can help me win him back? I want him home and soon!!!