I'm a 15 year old and i feel ridiculously sad a lot of the time. I play a lot of tennis and go to a private school. I have a lot of really close friends, but im not popular. I used to be just really happy, but the end of last year and this year have just been the worst. I constantly think about quitting tennis as i dont love it as much as i did, but i need a scholarship for college. I have almost all As, and A-s, except for one B+ but I dont try enough because i dont really want to anymore. I used to be really motivated and now i feel empty inside. I know that i could get straight As and start really playing tennis really well if i only tried harder. But i just cant anymore. My dad drinks a lot, and i know that my mom and i put a lot of stress on him, and its sad to see him disintegrate more and more everyday. We are going broke and i am on a scholarship and i honestly just want to get away from everything. My mom is really paranoid about everything and wont let me go to any parties and its like she doesnt trust me to make judgments. She thinks that because i wear makeup im a rebel and i hate it. I have thought numerous times about death and how to hurt myself. I wonder who would care if i died, and what my life would be life if someone close to me died. I want to run away and forget the world i knew and start over because i hate having these thoughts. Im already skinny and im eating less which is really bad for my tennis because i am not strong enough. I know its normal for a teenager to feel like this, but I just want to stop feeling like this and i dont know how. I dont drink or do drugs, but I do think about it sometimes to just spite my parents or for someone to notice.I had a really great guy who i could tell everything to, but he suddenly broke up with me because i guess we were just like best friends, but now we dont even talk and i miss him so much, and sometimes when we see each other i think he misses me too. We dont have the same friends, and on the outside he acts like a jerk sometimes, but hes really not and so sensitive. I miss having that reliability. I have best friends, and some understand but i cant stop feeling like this. I dont know what to do and im scared i might do something really stupid. I also feel like I am drenching myself in self-pity for no reason and i feel like an idiot but i hope someone can help me. thank you!