Ok I had a thought the other day, and it was regarding mental illness! I am aware that there are all different kinds of names for psychological/emotional difficulties, but I am wondering something interesting.. something hopeful! 
 I am wondering if it would be correct to say that all fear falls under the condition, ANXIETY. In other words, if you are fearing, you have anxiety, and nothing more!? I say this because if we consider other mental illness, in having anxiety we may fear that we have a suposedly incurable condition such as schizophrenia or bipolar or whatever. But here is the thing, I am wondering if people with mental illness such as bipolar and schizophrenia, if their condition is considered scary because of the nature of their condition, or is it because of the extent of how much fear they have. In other words, If all fear is anxiety, than it is possible for people with schizophrenia to not be afraid. Is this true? I mean, I know that such mental illness often coincides with anxiety/fear, but if mental illness such as schizophrenia does not mean greater fear, then I think there is absolute hope for everyone. There is hope for Schizophrenics because they have the ability to not fear, and it is hopeful for those with anxiety because they can know that there is no need to fear mental illness such as schizophrenia because schizophrenia is not a matter of fear, it is a matter of a condition which we either have or do not have, which can be determined through evaluation. In other words, the things that make mental illness like schizophrenia so bad are not fear, but rather conditions such as delusion, hallucination, etc. So after all, anxiety can be more scary than schizophrenia if bad enough, and depression can be more serious than schizophrenia if it makes us that hopeless. So if everything I stated is true, then in understanding mental illness and psychological health, if anxiety is fear that can be rationally eliminated, then everyone in the world can be happy, feel safe, be free, love, And not have to worry!
 Sorry if this is a little confusing, it is highly philosophical, but maybe if you read it again it may make sense. 
 Really, this is a question I have! And I am really curious to know what others think about this! Am I wrong about something I said, am I right?
 My main point is that fear is our real burden and no matter what our condition is, we can eliminate our fear.. and feel safe and free, and even happy!
 :)
 Ashleigh