Can someone Help? Im being Misunderstood.
6 minutes
Im eighteen years old and currently on college. Back in highschool it was 2012, im rather popular, having decent grades, and a leader. I have my personal friends but I can get along with other people easily.Until our batch graduated. The day right after our graduation there is this girls who bashed me on social media saying I suck, Im a teachers pet, a fame ***** and more of those lies. What hurts most is that a very close friend of mine is one of them she even gave more woods on the fire. Being a strong willed person I dont want to be left down cause if I contain their doings they will keep on bullying me. So I fought back. After a good comment here and posts there, they stopped and asked for forgiveness. In the end I did accept their apology. 
 On 2013, they started bashing me again for no reason. I didnt actually care until they included my friends saying were losers, we wont succeed in life and more. My friends said not to bother and so I did. After their bashing, almost all of our batchmates hates us for no apparent reason. Maybe they believe in them. For the lies they are spreading. I was hoping that of we wont care they will just stop bugging us. 
 Last 2014, exactly on my 18th birthday. I thought the war was over. But it seemed not. They ambused my twitter saying hurtful words  involving my education, my friends, my status in life, everything! I was so sick off all their sh*ts. Its been how many years and still they wont stop. 
 To think they are richer than me. They got everything that I dont.  I dont understand what is their problem. 
 Now its 2015. My best friends birthday came and these particular girl came and made a scene. Making me the worst person ever. But I didnt do anything! The MC asked me to give a message to my bestfriend and so I did. I just said the words a normal bestfriend would say like "thank you for being real. Even if people in our life come and go, US your true friends will stay with you" then BOOM she cried walked out and made a scene making me the antagonist. Everyone looked at me like I killed someone.  
 Now everybody hates me and my friends saying were the worst. We bullied someone. We are war freaks and more. 
 I dont know what to do with them they just wont stop. Sometimes I reflect my doings and think what is wrong with me. What did I do. What do they want.? 
 Help me please...