I have a history of mental health issues (I had clinical depression once for a long, chronic time and also diagnosed with borderline personality disorder and addictions) but I've been doing great for about 5 years. I haven't felt depressed since I was a teenager, I've been sober for 5 years and I hardly have anything in common with BPD traits anymore, I think I grew out of it, at least, I think so. Even my own psychologist doesn't think I have it anymore, but he also once said he didn't think I was crazy and I sometimes wonder about that.
 But in the last while I've been going through ups and downs. I become very, very obsessive. I latch onto ideas or patterns temporarily, so strongly fixated on these things that it becomes pure obsession, until my obsession stops abruptly. 
 My passions and goals consume me so much that I spend so much time researching them and then usually I run into a flaw in the plan and abandon it completely without any problem, or sometimes I complete my goals, but afterwards I don't feel any sense of accomplishment before I need to latch onto something else. 
 For example I had the thought that I should replace my countertops, and I spent all day obsessing and researching about it, so much that I forgot to eat. It felt so urgent, but then I crashed and realized how stupid it was to obsess about the countertops when they are just fine and now I am filled with this horrible misery and I feel upset and... miserable. MIsery is the best word to describe how I feel.
 I thought I was doing good, I was getting healthier, but I started becoming obsessed about being healthy, getting more organized and focused on cleaning my house, and for awhile it felt nice that I wanted to stay around home more than usual. But lately, I feel like I've been getting too obsessed with organization and cleaning, and trying to have the perfect home. 
 I get obsessed with everything I do because I'm miserable, and i used to think this misery is because I didn't have a purpose or a career and/or because I felt purposeless... but I don't think that's the case anymore. I think there is actually something wrong with me, I don't think my misery is normal. Especially not when it leads me to be so obsessive about things. 
The thing is, I've realized that it doesn't matter if I have a "purpose" or a "job" I am always going to be miserable, because those are just quick fixes to solve my internal  misery like everything else I get obsessed with. No objects, no amount of shopping on amazon, no fancy countertop and definitely no perfect job or no soul purpose is going to make me happy, because things can't make me happy. 
 Yes, my living situation isn't perfect but it's definitely better than most peoples and most people are still happy despite their circumstances, and I'm not sure why I'm always filled with this overwhelming misery. Yes, I frequently feel suicidal but never enough to go through with it. I've always blamed it on my lack of purpose or not having anything to do (I'm actually more active than most people are, and theres always a lot of excuses I can blame it on) but I'm starting to realize, that the misery is my problem I don't think it's because of outside influences. 
This realization ***** because I thought I was healthy and recovered all this time.
But it's weird, because I remember being depressed back in the day and I don't feel anything like that. When I was depressed before I would literally feel unmotivated and empty and listless and tired. Now I feel energetic and am maybe too motivated sometimes, I'm never truly depressed, just miserable and then I get so obsessed to random things.