I'm a 15-year-old girl so I know that it's practically impossible for me to have developed schizophrenia yet but I just don't know what to think. 
I've had OCD for a long time now and I've been seeing psychologists about it. Recently, after I'd done research on the internet and basically diagnosed myself with schizoid or schizotypal disorder, my psychologist said I had Asperger Syndrome. I don't recognize myself in AS at all because I work OK with strangers and other people. Lately I've excluded schizoid and schizotypal as well, after having given it more thought. But I know there's something more. A few times I've heard voices. It hasn't been like they were talking to me or telling me to do stuff, they've just commented sort of quietly on things I was doing and I've gone really scared. My face changed in the mirror once, it sort of looked like the edges became blurry or "it melted". My nose and mouth got real small and it didn't look like me anymore. 
I have to stop myself frequently from lying to get attention or making things seem more impressive than they really are and I can hardly control my face when someone gives me a compliment. This makes me worry about comorbidity with Histrionic PD. I sometimes get scared for no reason (especially when I'm going to sleep), so scared that I don't dare move. I'm afraid of almost every man I see outside, I believe they're going to rape or murder me. I check the peekhole in the door multiple times before going to bed and the window as well, it's because I'm afraid someone's standing there looking up at my bedroom window. I experience derealization frequently and when I was younger I was scared and cried and my mother didn't know what to say because she couldn't understand what I meant when I tried to tell her I was "living inside a dream".
I don't know what to say to my psychologists because they don't seem to want to get involved or listen. They told me that you don't diagnose people with personality disorders anymore, that it's old-fashioned and yet all over the internet people are getting diagnosed. 
Some help or just pointers, please?