Hello everyone, please take a moment in your life to read this information.
 There's a subject that unfortunately people are unaware or don't take it seriously that should be talked more often and a lifestyle change that should be done in correlation with traditional medicine approach and therapy. Let me talk to you about the epidemic malnutrition and how it can be the underlying cause of many diseases.
 ''No one is talking about this invisible epidemic even though it's the leading cause of disability, affecting 1.1 billion people worldwide.
 This epidemic of "broken brains" shows up in radically different ways from person to person, so they seem like separate problems. But the truth is that they are all manifestations of a few common underlying causes.
 These seemingly different disorders are ALL really the same problem–imbalances in nutrition and lifestyle habits.
 The imbalances take many shapes including schizophrenia, Alzheimer's, dementia, and Parkinson's disease.
 In addition, there are brain problems that fall on the lighter side of the broken brain continuum, and while many psychiatrists and neurologists wouldn't qualify these problems as treatable diseases, they still cause unnecessary suffering for many.
 These problems include chronic stress, lack of focus, poor concentration, brain fog, anger, mood swings, sleep problems, or just feeling anxious or depressed most of the time.
 There is an answer to brain problems, but it's not more drugs or psychotherapy. Although these tools can be a helpful bridge during your recovery from a broken brain, they won't provide long term solutions.
 The secret that promises to help us fix our broken brains lies in an unlikely place, a place modern medicine has mostly ignored.
 The answer lies into your body.'' -Dr. Mark Hyman, MD
 You have to fix your broken brain by healing your body first. Here are the keys to heal.
 -Improve Nutrition: With today's processed food and pesticides bombarded agriculture, it is really hard to get all the nutriments, vitamins and minerals the human being needs for a healthy life. Just cooking your food reduces the nutriments amounts you get and breaks down enzymes that help us digest our food. Eating enzyme-dead foods places a burden on your pancreas and other organs and overworks them, which eventually exhausts these organs. Many people gradually impair their pancreas and progressively lose the ability to digest their food after a lifetime of ingesting processed foods. Unless you tell me that you are growing your own agriculture in a rich ground without pesticides in a pollution free environment and you are hunting your own animals in the nature, you are lacking vitamins and critical nutriments. That's why vitamins supplements and other kind of supplements are critical for us westerners.
 -Balance your hormones: The best way to balance your hormone is a good lifestyle with healthy diet and exercise. Exercise lowers stress hormones, boosts your energy, builds bone mass, and increases immunity. Choose an activity that you like ( walking, dancing, yoga, sports ) and do it several times a week. Healthy diet and good water intake is also important and as for what is a healthy diet i think i was clear above but i will be more clear. Eat whole, organic, unprocessed foods. Eliminate dairy foods that come from cows fed hormones that increases milk production. There’s no telling how they may affect your hormones. Go outside! Even a 30 mins walk is ok and considered exercising.
 -Fix your digestive system: This is easy to do with a lifestyle change and proper diet but also consider buying a natural detox kits to promote the detoxification of your body in an efficient way when used with a good diet.
 -Boost energy metabolism: Sugar, Coffee and all related products are all fake energy. Even if you are unaware of it when you run out of these you are experiencing withdrawals. The real energy is in good nutriments. Good vitamins and minerals intake is critical when talking about energy and especially the vitamins B. The B vitamins act as coenzymes, compounds that unite with a protein component called an apoenzyme to form an active enzyme. The enzyme then acts as a catalyst in the chemical reactions that transfer energy from the basic food elements to the body. The B vitamins are a group of eight vitamins, which include thiamine ( B1 ), riboflavin ( B2 ), niacin ( B3 ), pyridoxine ( B6 ), folic acid ( B9 ), cyanocobalamin ( B12 ), pantothenic acid and biotin. Most of the B vitamins have been recognized as coenzymes, and they all appear to be essential in facilitating the metabolic processes that are essential for life. These vitamins are essential for the breakdown of carbohydrates into glucose, which provides us energy, the breakdown of fats and proteins, which aids the normal functioning of the nervous system, muscle tone in the stomach and intestinal tract, and healthy skin, hair, and eyes. Since these vitamins affect such important elements of your body, a source that provides them all in a single daily supplement is recommended. The B vitamins are important for the proper formation of every cell in your body, particularly nerve cells. This is why it is so important for pregnant women to take supplements that contain the B vitamins, particularly folic acid, and why a deficiency of certain B vitamins manifests itself first as anxiety and depressed mood.
 It is also important to take time to relax to avoid production of the stress hormone that is having an impact on your health by affecting your brain and immune system.
 There you have it folks, you are free to do whatever you want with your life but i felt that the people needed the right information regarding a long-term solution.
 If you have any questions or comments feel free to ask here or send me a private message.
 Very best wishes,
M4