I separated from my husband 9 months ago.  The marriage had been dead for 5 years.  We stayed good friends.  I moved back to my home town to be close to family.  After a few months I met a really nice guy.  We hit it off so well.  Unfortunately he has gone back to university (doing a 3 year program in 1.5 years) and will be finishing up in the new year.  He has a crazy busy life with school, trying to make money, seeing his 18 year old son and a full life with friends.  He has fit me in around the edges and usually can make it work.  He has told me he is not in love with me (I have told him I do love him) but is more fond of me than either of his wives.  He has only been in love once and he didn't realize it until the person moved away.  He loves spending time with me, we get along fantastic and have a great sex life.  I am growing close to his son too.  
 He asked me to go into business with him.  We have prepared business plans for 2 operations and are trying to get funding to make them happen.  I know we will work well together if we can make this happen.
 The stress from school and some legal issues has been killing him.  I also had someone tell me that he may be meeting other women on line for coffee.  I approached him on this yesterday and he assured me since he hardly had time for me that he was definitely not seeing other women.  He did have a couple of woman friends he met on line that he does meet for coffee once in a while.  I believe him but am freaked out that after we started dating he updated his profile on the on-line dating site.  This site doesn't seem to delete  your profiles when you cancel either.  When we talked last night he was so stressed and reiterated he didn't know what he wanted or where we were going but that it is good right now and he feels that working together in the businesses will bring us even closer.
 I sent him a note today advising that I am giving him space until he is done his term as I am just adding to his stress levels.  But I do need to talk to him on some business issues and asked when we can talk.  I am awaiting word.  
 Should I keep going with this relationship?  I know that the stress will be dramatically less once September comes.  Should I hold out hope that he will grow to love me as we work together to build a financial future?  He makes me feel so good when we are together and he is a good man.  He is damaged from being beaten as a child and his first wife leaving him for his best friend.  He is so afraid of getting hurt again.  I love him but I really want to be loved back.  Should I give it more time?  Should we go non-exclusive?  If we break up can I handle working with him?  This is so hard.