hi, i am new on this site and am here as a friend (who also has mental health issues) suggested that i may have BPD, she has known me for 7 years and seen me struggle with life.
I was violently, verbally and sexually abused as a child (although the sexual abuse didn't start until i was 12) i have always felt odd, i didn't mix well with my peers even from a young age, and children being children bullied me as  i was "different", i spent most of my early teens in foster care and left home at 15 when i discovered boys!!!! i went from one horrific "relationship" to another, mainly with manipulative men (older than me) or addicts, i clung so tightly to these people that i ended up pushing them away, then spent my time hating myself and desperately looking for my next "companion", all of these relationships were based on sex, none of them fulfilling my desperate battle agains abandonment at 16 i made my first attempt to take my life, and my landlady found me and promptly threw me out on the street, my parents could not cope with my mood swings, and wanted nothing to do with me, so i moved away and became addicted to cocaine. i couldn't function without it!! just before i turned 18 i met a guy (another addict) and moved in with him within days, 3 months later i became pregnant with my eldest son, it was the push i needed to get clean!! our relationship broke down after me spending months of accusing him of being with another woman..he denied it, but i later found out that he was cheating!!! i went back to a number of meaningless sexual relationships!!! at 19 i met my husband, he is an amazing man and surprisingly has not left me, even though at the start of our relationship, i was violent, clingy and a complete nightmare, we have 2 more children together and are as happy as we can be!!!...i have been treated for depression for the last 8-10 years and am on Citalopram at the moment.
the trouble is i still have the most horrific mood swings, i self harm (cutting) and most days i feel like i can't go on anymore. i have had cognitive behavioral therapy, but that only really dealt with the issues i have with my parents.
I am not sure if i have BPD which is why i am posting this, i do function on many levels, although i can't stay in a job more than 3 months, my boredom threshold is so low, i hate being cooped up for any amount of time, i overspend, and am constantly moving things around at home to try to combat my fear of things always being the same (very confusing for those that live with me)i am always testing peoples friendship, and have lost many friendships doing this!! i snap at my children over the slightest things, and although i don't lay a hand on them, sometimes they are scared of me.
i am being referred to a psychiatrist but am not sure how long the waiting list is???
i am here for support and advice, so anything you can tell me about this illness would be received gratefully