Good day .I am an 18 year old Pakistani  girl.My mother has been receiving treatment for schizophrenia for almost 25 years .She is a very unique case . She was an extremely brilliant student and was admitted to a well reputed medical college . There , she was unable to adjust because of a sort of phobia of flesh and dead bodies( which were included in anatomy dissections ),watching deliveries worsened her condition leading to a decision of abandoning the medical  studies. She graduated privately and joined the teaching profession. She had always been an aggressive person .She was also very arrogant as "she was a perfect beauty with brains" women. Finding out about painless delivery she agreed to get married .She married my father( it was an arranged one).She has revolting point of views about religion, and lives in her own fantasy world .She sort of thinks that every man is after her. She also thinks that people are conspiring against her. She hates her her mother and her brothers .She has been receiving treatment from various psychiatrists but nothing has helped much.She is currently in an institution called Fountain house. But she does not cooperate much with her therapists as she thinks that she is much more intelligent than them.She does not accept her disease and thinks she has Insomia only. Another thing is that she cannot sleep for more than 3 hours a night without medicines. Presently she is taking 5 anti- psychotics .The names and doses are listed below:         ziapine 100 mg       4 daily          seductil  100          2 daily            Ativan                      2 daily        Neurolith              1 daily         Dosik   5 mg             1 daily         Kempro  5 mg          2 daily         Clonatril   2 mg            1 daily        Injections ( fortnightly) Zyclidine 10 mg Fluefin          Please do not disapoint  me. I am myself a medical student and an only child .Dealing with my mother becomes very challenging as she is very very aggressive at times. Thanking you.