I have searched this site high and low and have gotten great advice, but no definitive answers.  Here is a quick recap.  June 2013 I get terrible pain in behind right testicle.  Diagnosed with Epididymitis.  Standard testing is done and no bacterial/STD cause can be found.  Shortly after a lymph node in groin swells.  First notice July 8, 2013.  Doctor says it is reactive to whatever is causing epididymitis.  over the next few weeks the testicle starts hurting less, but the node starts hurting more.  Lymph node causing pressure in groin, pain radiates to my right thigh, up through my belly on the right side, my right hip and my right flank.  The thigh, hip, flank pain is intermittent but always feeling at least one.  July 31, 2013 I get ultrasound done on groin.  result is "enlarged lymph node 19mm x 11mm x 6mm.  Mostly benign features, likely reactive.".  Now my doctor has one look at this and declares it reactive and says it will go away.  September 3 go back to the doctor to discuss increased pressure in groin and intermittent pain in extensions (thigh, flank, hip) continue and are getting a little stronger at times.  Again, doctor says it is reactive and will clear up eventually.  Here it is now October 2, 2013.  The bulge is still in my groin, hurts more now than before.  Where it was a pressure feeling when it started, now has become painful with sharp stabbing pain once in a while.  In addition, not sure if it matters or not but I have been getting up to urinate everynight between 3 and 4 am since this started.  Never used to happen before.  I'm 34 years old.  I'm not asking to get diagnosed here.  But i'm looking for next steps.  What would you suggest I do next regarding seeing a doctor and what kind of tests would you suggest I ask for?  I have got great advice in some forums here, but am still at a loss.  my doc is not worried at all.  Of course, I jump to worse case scenario and assume the lymph node is lymphoma.  My doctor thinks anxiety is getting the better of me.  I wish i could agree. However, I can't explain a swollen lymph node for over three months when no infection is found.  Please provide your thoughts if possible.