I've led a rough and unhappy life, and I wrote some ranting here about my frustration,
 but recent couple of days I feel strange.
 I feel like something is really broken inside this time.
 Before today, When I had problems or hard time or struggle, I felt angry and frustrated but there was always some fire inside me. At least anger and annoyance made me get out of bed and go to work.
 Today it's just completely gone. Simply gone.
 I felt like this only once in my life. When I took risperdal(risperidone). It's antipsychotic med, it blocks neurotransmitters like dopamine and serotonin receptor so suppresses your emotions to calm you down. Opposite to anti-depressant. When I took it I felt like every hope and will all gone suddenly, I quit it.
 Today I feel like exactly the same.
I take xanax on and off but it never gave me this serious side-effects.
 Out of blue every will and fire is just gone. I don't even know why.
 I'm very aggressive and very angry person inside. That anger was only energy i got to live.
Now that is gone. Nothing is left inside.
 I think true depression is like THIS.
I felt I was always depressed but I didn't know what depression meant in genuine way.
 Today I feel it.
complete emptiness and void. I don't even want to kill myself anymore. Outside is zero-sub weather I just want to get out and maybe sit down on a bench and want to get killed by cold weather.
 I don't even care this post can get your attention anymore. I think people on depression forum are all depressed they don't want to bother to care about other people. I can understand it suddenly.
 I think people might say to take anti-depressant, but i have severe sensitivity to anti-depressant, and I was prescribed risperdal, it means I need neurotransmitter blocker, anti-depressants are opposite drugs, I can't take them.
 I've said several times I'm tired and frustrated.
But today I don't even feel that.
 It's like....
something is dead inside. Typing is slowered because I feel like I'm dreaming.
 I should go out to work but I can't move.