Hi I'm Ellie. I entered this site a long time ago because I had concerns about my physical health, but now I'm more concerned then I have ever been about myself. My boyfriend Grant Is well, not being my boyfriend Grant. Ive been with him for a year and I know its hard to believe but I know him better then anyone has ever tried to know him before, and something is very wrong. I guess I'll start at the top. 
      When he was 13 his mother died from cancer. that same year he was accused of something horrible that his brother lied about(long story) and they put him in counseling for three years and treated him like a ********* untill his brother had admitted he lied, but he says his father never looked at him the same and made him go to bed at 9 every single night before his brothers. then his grandma died and she was the only person he was close to. for all these reasons he moved in with me and my family when he was 19.
      He has this mood thing where one hour he is fine and happy and he is the guy i love and my best friend, and im not sure what happens but within a couple hours it changes and he almost gos numb it seems. he literally gos from saying he loves me and wants to be with me forever to saying he doesnt know if he wants to be with me at all and he doesnt know him self or anything anymore. I always ask him if he lied before and he always says he ment it but something changed. about a week ago i left in the morning for medical tests and he was fine, said said he loved me and he hoped it went well, but when i came back all his stuff was gone and there was nothing but a text messages saying how he didnt know what he wanted or if he was doing anything wrong. When I talked to him he seemed numb and empty he didnt even ask about my testing which he was truly concerned about ealier, though when he came over later he was back to being himself, he was the playful guy I know.  He lives back with his dad now which worries me because hes numb more ofter living there.
       could this be borderline personality disorder or depression or something. Im really worried he'll do something unpredictable or stupid. he seems to be getting worse and i dont know whats setting him off. he says he'll see a doctor but he'll never go back to a psychiatrist because of his past. Please help me help him, he says he doesnt want to go into his unpredictable empty moods but i dont know how to help him.