My girlfriend and I have been together for 8 months.  I truly believe we both love each other and she confirms that she has never believed we will part but I have a real problem with her continual anger.  Can anyone help?
 Her anger can come out of nowhere, for no visible reason and sometimes last for days.  She can often be snappy and a bit off-hand and critical but the good times are always great.
 A typical example of many incidents is that for Valentine's day she made me a crocheted heart cushion with ninety-nine 3 dimensional roses on it.  It must have taken her hours and hours.  Such love and devotion.  I was delighted and  We had a great weekend.  But, when we next spoke by phone the next evening, EVERYTHING with her had changed, for some reason which I couldn't fathom.  She was angry, critical and and nothing I could say or do could stop her from elevating what should have been a normal conversation into a massive row that's lasted for two weeks.
 This has happened many times before i.e. from good to bad in a blink and I need to understand why and if there is anything I can do to help her.....and us.
 Often, when there is no obvious reason for her anger and all is perfectly happy and normal, I can visibly see her condition deteriorating, in front of me.  Her body language changes, her face becomes pale, there's limited eye contact, she begins to put me down (not others, just me) and nit-pick over really insignificant things.  
 My tactic has been to ignore all of this, so far as possible, and just try to be normal.   But that doesn't work.  It seems that the more I try to ignore it and remain cheerful and non-committal, the more angry she gets.  Almost as if she needs to create an excuse to get angry and get "something" out of her system.  In these circumstances, she will criticise even the best things about us and please remember, this is all out of nowhere.
 Eventually, after say a couple of hours of living on top of what feels like a smouldering volcano, I may touch her hand as a simple gesture of love and kindness.  Immediately she will smash my hand away and say "Don't you dare touch me".    This is typical of most bouts of anger.  i.e. that there seems to me to be no reason for it (actually many more reasons to be happy than angry).  Sometimes I've resolved the problem by taking the blame for something I didn't do, just to keep the peace.
 In moments of sanity, she has said several times to me, "How can you love me when I am so bad to you?".
 The last incident resulted in a break-up of our engagement (possible temporary cos she does mostly get back to normal, eventually).  I'm trying because I REALLY do love her but I am REALLY struggling to know how I will be able to live with someone and help someone who seems to have this Jekyl and Hyde personality.  If I could believe that it was really all my fault, I could do something about it but if I approach her to consider help or assistance, even for both us, she just flips, again.  It's almost as if she NEEDS someone else (always me) to BE the problem, so she can live with herself.
 Any ideas on this?   Personal criticism of me/my approach welcomed, as I'd consider anything to get some semblance of normality in a relationship which half the time is just the very best.