I am doing well in my recovery from BPD, am 9 months sober from my addictions/alcoholism as well, and doing well in my other problems! 12 step programs have helped me in every general area, but i am here to ask about a current pitfall i am facing.
 Background: In my lifetime I have never finished anything i started, job, education or work related, suffer from perfectionism, and black and white thinking, and a moral to only do things i love. When i am situated in a job or doing something i do not like i break down psychotically, the stress is too much to bear, i become exhausted, and i quit, my mind shuts down. 
My resentment towards society = do not understand or agree with the way things work, thus vowed to myself to never conform, i don't agree with the world and that i should be working for riches because i believe there is more to life, and i cannot compute with stress. But i now feel the stress of having to get on with my life, having to plan my future and be independent and successful. 
I have trauma from back in school, whereas i tried my hardest to learn, but after they did millions of tests trying to "figure out why i was so stupid" they found nothing and labeled me as rebellious problem child, which hurt. I then went along with being a rebel because the failure hurt me, dropped out of school as quickly as possible. I am an extremely intelligent being, i can grasp things most people cannot, but i still feel incompetent. I taught myself how to learn. But I learn differently and that along with my past of being called stupid, people constantly telling me what i cannot do, is really hindering me now. Later in life, they finally diagnosed me with a rare learning disability, a little too late. 
 So I recently quickly jumped into many set plans of studying to get into the medical field, I found a passion for first aid, helping people and anatomy, my brain is like a sponge, it absorbs the information so well it surprises me that i enjoy the education. I took standard first aid, aced it, got one question wrong, and beat myself up about it. I do not handle failure well at all. So after i figured out i wanted to train to become a paramedic, i decided to take Level 2 first aid, before Level 3 so i would be more prepared. 
Until class came around and i was told Level 2 is more difficult than level 3, and i should have just went straight to it.
Level 2 was 5 days of cramming in a spastic hurry, only hands on material, role-play scenarios and I do not learn that way, especially in a stressful environment where they have no time to explain, i need repetition for hands on, and I did not agree with the way they taught the course at all, was a rip off, 600 dollars.
I was getting angry, stressed out, was not till later i figured out why. It brought out deep seeded issues and shadows, 
i get so angry at myself when i do not understand, i have such an intelligent analytical mind that i need to know and feel superior, thus NOT knowing raises insecurities that makes me angry. I blame it on everyone else for not explaining it accurately, or think that i should be right, cannot admit i am wrong.
But... I passed the written exam highest score in my class. But I failed the practical hands on. In all i cannot handle failure, but this was really bad. I got around 400 percent DEDUCTED off for ridiculous mistakes. I froze and panicked, i couldn't handle the exam it was terrifying, i have a horrible phobia of exams, but this was worse because your role-play acting in front of a judging audience, trying to remember every order of the priority action approach, my mind blanks out, as soon as i make one mistake, i shut down. It doesn't matter even if i was 100% confident in what i knew, i fear i would still fail due to my anxiety. Even worse i killed many imaginary patients that day. They probably think i would be a danger to people.
  
Since then i have went downhill, past childhood memories coming back to haunt me, depression, urges to go back out and drink, just give up and quit. 
Worse is that my mind is on constant negative mode, and coming up with horrible scenarios of "why should i succeed anyway?" I mean, when even doctors who take one look at my medical charts tell me i am a danger to society and shouldn't be on the streets, how does that give me a chance to succeed in life?
To tell you the truth, i believe i can do it, in my heart, i know i can, i know i would be great at that job and i would love to. I react well in emergency situations, and i am amazing at helping people out. I am great under the stress of emergencies, but when it comes to learning and exams I am not. But it's just my past, and everyone who ever told me, I can't. My self doubts have real outside influence. 
I know i am not completely stable. I jump into opportunities, and i am still freshly new in recovery, 9 months ago i was self medicating with booze. Let alone lying to them, i can't do. I am incapable of living in lies, but i would have to. They can't know i am an alcoholic, addict, and my medical history if i want to be a paramedic, they would take my certificate away. I feel discouraged. I feel like maybe people like me aren't meant to succeed in life. I know that is not right, but that is what society wants, to keep us hidden, to keep us medicated, brainwashed, living in fear, keep us as minorities, they don't want someone who is as awake as me getting involved with their society.
I never wanted this - to be successful, to be part of society, but now I do. I don't want to be a disgrace to my family, i want to get off of disability welfare and support myself, because I know i damn well can. I am not unable and unfit. I can function just as well as anybody else. In my past, i could not, but i have come a long way. I know more things then they do, i know just how corrupt the mental health and medical systems are, and i could be of assistance to people. I have overcome a lot of experiences, and i can use that to help people. But i was also diagnosed as a "psychopath" and the same statement that i can't ever do anything in life, came from the same ******* liars that said i do not feel empathy, which is bull. I love people, i care, and i am destined to be a healer of some kind, it just so happens i am greatly interested in the actual physical side of healing injuries.
I can put my past behind me. But the doubts are chaotic in my head right now.
I am terrified of going on with my goals. But i don't want to give up. Someone told me once, about bravery... that it doesn't mean you aren't afraid, it just means you do it anyway.
But i don't know how to cope. I have never been in the situation of trying to be involved with planning, my future before, i've always quit when things become too tough.
People tell me to not be so hard on myself when it comes to my failure. That doesn't help much. They say, this too shall pass, or, just try again, and i feel like punching them in the face, because they don't understand how horrible this is, i can't even understand why it bothers me so much. 
I'm going to go back and do it... i think. Actually my psychologist and I came up with a plan to find someone to teach me before i go back to the courses. That perhaps if i am 100% confident in the subject matter, when i panic, my body can just do it anyway out of habit. 
But even thinking of going back to the courses scares the living daylights out of me.   
I hope someone can give me some helpful advice about these things.
Thank you,