So last year was good up until may. I made a very good friend and we were very close. Then we "broke up" because the guy she liked (I liked him too) asked me out. I felt horrible for saying yes and I told her in person in the nicest way I could (I debated about telling her for a long time) about me and the guy's relationship. She told me that she was angry and kept asking "why would you do this to me". She left and after that my life fell apart. I struggled with depression for a while before that, but when I became friends with her, things got better. But after she left, everyone hated me. All my fiends left and called me a **** and a *****. I didn't even do anything with the guy! We went to the movies one time! Anyway, I began self harming and developed and eating disorder and trying to figure out how to kill myself. Finally after a while, my mom noticed my wrist and sent me to a therapist. After going there things became better. I quit self harming and actually ate. Summer came and one of my old friends who had turned on me apologized. I forgave her and told her what happened. She said she would help me every step of the way and I was finally happier. But the whole summer I wondered what was going to happen when I went back to school. Turns out that my friend was in one of my classes and sits right in front of me. She talked to me about my shoes and made small talk, but never really discussed what happened. Finally after about two months I asked her to meet me and talk. I told her I was so sincerely sorry and even though she had pain, I did too. I didn't tell her about my eating disorder or self harm but that I did struggle with serious issues. She didn't even ask. She said we can move forward and as of now, we are better than we left them in may. I want to tell her about what happened but I don't think she trusts me yet. How can I prove to her that she can trust me and how can I get things back to the way they were. How can I change her mind and how can I get her to be my best friend again??