Or is it an old wives tale, that you will probably go through menopause at the same age as your mother?
If this is true, does it have to be your mother or can it be one of her sisters or their mother?
 I'm 44...going through some really weird stuff.
My mother had a complete hysterectomy at the age of 28...she was into full menopause shortly thereafter.
Her younger sisters were around 33 and 35 when they had their hysterectomies...one full and one had ovaries left.
The one with the full hyst went through meno within a year. The one with the ovaries intact was in full menopause by 43.
My grandmother had a hysterectomy and passed away when I was young...no one knows how old she was or would have been if and when she hit menopause. They didn't talk about "those sort of things" back then.
Her mother ( my great grandmother) died from her uterine cancer because they didn't do that sort of testing back then...she never got around to having a hysterectomy.
So far, I am the oldest living woman on my mom's side who hasn't had a tubal, hysterectomy,etc.
I have had laser surgery for cervical cancer...I was 28.
My younger cousins can't help as they have all had hysterectomies, tubes tied, sterile from birth, or are only young teenagers.  Only two of them are in my age group...my mom is the eldest...her youngest brother is my age.
 I have been to my MALE doctor...who does NOT believe in peri-menopause ...nor does he believe that women under 60 should be tested for breast cancer. He says that women over react to that sort of thing.
He says that I'm way too young to be thinking about menopause, therefore he won't test me...except for my thyroid...that showed I was on the "high end" of normal...whatever that means.
 With my last baby my FSH levels were so far out there that they suggested I abort because the tests said he would have Down's syndrome...happy to say he's a little genius and healthy as a horse.
 I have been having hot flashes since I was in my 30's. My periods have ALWAYS been on a 28 day cycle...no matter how stressed, sick, anxious, or whatever else...I have NEVER had problems with them...until now.
I told him that they've been getting closer together for almost a year now, and I've been having it all month this month...I've developed anger issues, can't stand the cold, can't stand the hot, sex is something of the past...I have no desire whatsoever...which is why hubby sent me in to see the doctor in the first place.
So how does someone in my case tell?
No one, except that one aunt who had her ovaries left, has ever gone into menopause "naturally".
One lady told me that my aunt did it naturally because the ovaries were still left...is this true?
 I realize,from what I've read, that you have to go without a period for exactly one year to be considered menopausal...but what about this peri thing?
Of course, it probably won't matter much...if this bleeding doesn't stop I'll end up having a hysterectomy anyway I guess...isn't that what they do? Or do they leave you to bleed for the next however many years? lol
 Thanks in advance for any and all answers/comments.