This may sound crazy but i am soooooooo depressed and feeling like I am at the edge of life.  I am a 56 year old male, been married for 36 years to my wife but I am so sad!  I got my hair cut, no one noticed, I am so sad, I received a certificate for an accomplishment earlier this year I had been working on for some time. When I opened the letter congratulating me I broke down and cried with joy for 20 minutes. My wife was at work at the time and I texted her which she noted congratulations to me and we would celebrate.  She forgot about celebrating. A guy isn't supposed experience this!  Over 20 years ago my wife got her tubes cut and tied, we had questions the day of the operation about whether to do this or not and the doctor just walked out of the room ignoring us. All that was required for the surgery was her to sign a release the day before the operation. They really don't give a sh...t  about the guy.  However if you go to get a Vasectomy the wife has to sign off on the procedure.  It wasn't like we had scheduled before and cancelled either. Upon my insistance we had several meeting with the doctor after she had this done and found out the doctor had confused us with another couple.  We have 2 very healthy boys that we're proud of but I had always pictured myself ever since I can remember with a larger family. We did go to a specialist a couple of years after she had the surgery to talk to a doctor about reversing the tubal ligation but we didn't go through with it. I wish we had!!  I am so sad because of not speaking up for how I felt that I have many days that I could just end my life. I have been to a head shrink a few years after she had her tubes done. A guy is suposed to be happy when his wife can't have kids any more but the weight of this keeps getting heavier and heavier!  I have thought about writing a letter to the doctor that performed the tubal ligation and letting him know the damage he has caused by being too concerned with his schedule. It has wrecked my life totally.  The thought of leaving my wife has never even entered my mind. I am so sad over this hasty decision on the surgery. I have recently brought up the thought that even though we are in our 50's, let's get the surgery reversed now! She just goes on I guess hoping this will pass but it just keeps lingering. Has any one else ever felt like this?