Hi, I've read with heartache and yet delight??? that I have finally found a site that actually deals with paxil and the ill effects of withdrawal.  I have been on paxil on and off for 30 years after being diagnosed with a chemical imbalance at 17.  I am or at least was feeling well and I wanted to try discontinuing paxil to detoxify my body.  I did do it gradually which I would advise everyone however even after being off of the pills completely for 3 weeks I still suffer from a sense of hightened response to noise or movement.  As with most of you I am suffering from vertigo, too realistic dreams, nausea and severe headaches.  I am usually an even-keeled person but I have felt such rage this last week that it is almost unbearable.  I feel as though someone has given me something as I am living in a foggy state of mind.  My body trembles and it is hard to hold my head up.  The "zap" that you speak of can only be described by me as if someone has hit me in the face with a basketball-my eyes flinch, and my whole body jolts.  I counted 7 episodes of this in less the one half hour before being able to fall asleep.  My doctor says that hopefully in a couple of weeks, these side effects should disappear.  I will not, nor will I ever go back on this pill.  I cannot take any other anti-depressants as all of them gave me terrible side effects.  If anyone else has been on, or off and on paxil for this many years and can give me any kind of idea when these side effects will go away, I would be more than grateful.  For all of you who choose to go back on this medicine due to illness from coming off, I totally understand.  I personally feel that if I can get through this with the grace of God, I will never touch this stuff again.  I was never told, remember that I started this years ago, that I would have problems with withdrawal.  If this is what withdrawal from this med. does to you when you are not taking it, then what is it doing to our bodies when we are taking it!.. Good luck and God bless to all of you.  Always remember when times get tough, that you are never truly alone.