i think i am being abused. i can't do anything about it. i have been on the internet forever trying to find something about getting help but all i kept getting were these child abuse sites, or development Disabilities abuse. i am not a child, i am 20 years old and i do have a disability, but it is a learning one. i live with my family a mom a dad and a brother. you see i am outcasted in my family. no one really talks to me, and i think that is neglect. when they actually do talk to me, its such verbal abuse. name calling. telling me i'm a b**** that is a ****, worthless, that i just  people for money. i try and stay out of there way by cleaning after my self ,minding my own bissnesss. but you can only do so much. my mom and my brother both verbally abuse me i think. i also think that there is economic abuse. because my dad makes the money and my mom is in charge of placeing that money. and since im going to school and i only have a part time mimmium wage job they pay for my cell phone, schoool, car insurance, and since i didn't have any money they helped me put a down payment on the car. my mom thrents to take all this away, all the time. you see things were worse when i didn't have a car because she would threthen to not take me to school and work.  then more mad she gets the more she takes away.  i think that i am physically abused too. one night i left the sink with some water on it, and my mom told me to clean it up. i said no because it wasn't enough to hurt anything. and she was going to go brush she teeth, she came into my room hit me in the back and got into my face yelling and spitting in my face, and made me clean it. in my back when i was recovering from kidney stones, mind you. another night only a week ago. i had been taking a shower, i got out of the shower and i was nakid trying to put on my towel when my brother opened the door with some question, i got freaked out and shut the door. (there are locks in my house but they don't lock=no privicy) then it trys opening it a second time which i shut agian. by this time i barley had my towel around me, he comes pushing through the door, and starts hitting me all over. he pushes the towel over my head and begins hitting me in my face and sides. when i try and defind myself he shoves me on to the floor. i came out with a bunch of cuts and bruses, and various acks, and pains. and then all my parents did was tell me not to do it agian. which he has before and will keep doing. while i'm in my room crying of pain. lets him leave without anymore that that. i have a girlfriend and she is really great. but since were gay its another reason why they hate me and treat me like this. well i think. they always call me such gay bashing as dyke, lesbain. so i think social abuse, they tryed to get me to not see her, i do anyways, but when she gets mentioned i get bashed worse than ever, so i think emotional abuse as well. since i'm not who she wants me to be, i'm with i want to be. she hurts me so much by, intimidation,minimizing, denying, and blaming. whenever i try and say i'm leaving she tells me that i can't take my car, and that i will have no health insuriance, and she won't pay for anything anymore. so how am i suposed to leave? i have nothing and almost no one.  i am a very emotional person, and i can't handel it. i have for a very long time. but i need help. i am so messed up. all i do is cry and feel sp worthless. i don't know what to do.
can someone help me?