Me and my ex broke up 5 months ago. We have been arguing randomly throughout our breakup. he would send me some pretty nastty texts pretty much just blaming me for our breakup. & bringing up all of my faults. Texting me how much of a "horrible" person i am. He has never called me a horrible person, but thats just the way he makes me feel in his text messages. Bringing up old problems. I asked him severel times to stop the disrespectful messages. Theyre emotional abusive & unnessesary. 
He texted me this on New Years Eve.. completely out of no where
 "You should figure your **** out and grow up. You could make a guy very happy if you be yourself but you cant you have to pretend like your a down as* girl that some clown drug dealer would date. i know you and will tell you straight up if you be yourself and admit to your problems and express your feelings then youd make out fine but you cant. . I speak the truth, your not used to that. i dont give a  who your with. i know you and what you need and what needs to be said to you. and im not scared to tell anyone what i think. im just sayin if you listen to me you will figure something out. but you wont cuz im not "real" when im the only one who has ever been real in your life. I'm trying to make your stupid a** grow up. F*ck your dumb "
  this is completely out of no where, we broke up 5 months ago. Why does he keep coming out of no wheres with these text messages? I changed my phone number the next day... 
I still have very strong feelings for him. There is a huge part of me that wishes we were together. Cause im still very much in love with him. I tried having mature conversations with him. & he apologized for all of the mean things he has said to me on Christmas day, but still continued with the disrespectful ones days after. 
I just want to understand why......... can someone give me some insight? We were together for almost 2 years and completely in love but both of us are immature and that stood in the way, and prevented alot of fights. Ego got in the way and we stopped putting in effort. it just went downhill  the last few months..........
Why does he act like he hates me so muchhh