I am 20 years old, married, 7 weeks pregnant. I am currently staying with my parents because my husband is out of state for work and won't be back until next month. Our lease was up on the apartment and I chose not to go with him to California because I didn't want to be alone or in a strange place I didn't know during the first weeks of my pregnancy. My parents don't know that I am pregnant yet. I am waiting until my husband gets back to tell them, or if I start showing sooner than that. I am just really worried that I am going to stress out too much because of my mom. She is... Different. Very controlling, likes to put everyone else down but herself, she thinks that she is God's (or whomever you believe in) gift to this world. She is very difficult to be around. Lately she has been screaming and complaining about everything... She doesn't approve of my marriage since I am so young and I know that she is going to go ballistic once she finds out I'm pregnant. She constantly complains about how "stupid I am" and how "desperate" I am to be with a man. Now, my husband and I aren't the richest people in the world, and my mom thinks that I should be with a rich guy who will give me whatever I want... I don't believe that money can buy you happiness and I would much rather be with a man that I can spend time with and don't have to be sad that he's working all of the time. Now, I have been taking it easy -- with cleaning, lifting and being too hard on myself but my mom literally gives me anxiety. When I hear her walking towards the room I am in, my heart races and I just get anxious and feel like "what am I getting yelled at for now?" or "what is she going to say about my husband and his family now?" I really do envy those young women and women in general who have a good relationship with their mom. I also feel that when she finds out that I am pregnant, she will push me to abort the baby and neither my husband or I want that. I am getting driven crazy here -- I talk to my dad about how insane and narcisstic she is but it doesn't really help much. Sometimes I swear my mom will be the death of me. I don't know what to do, or how to tell them about the baby. I need some advice, or atleast someone to talk to.