I have a horrible relationship with my mother. I am 19 year old, suffer from anxiety and depressions, and I believe to have endometriosis. I definetly have anger issues and I believe it gets extremely worse around my period. I love my mom to death, but we can get along. I flip out for.no good reason towards her. She is extremely over protective of me.and I find her to be very annoying and very judgmental at times. She says that because I don't believe in god, that I am miserable. I don't believe that. I believe to get my anger from my dad and I definetly get my anxiety.from my mom. I developed (well I believe to have anxiety my whole life but it got worse last year) my anxiety was so bad that I didn't eat and I ended up losing 60lbs in 3 months. My mom tells me to stop worrying but she just spray understand.
I want my realtionahip with my mom to get better. I scream and curse at her and I really don't want to treat my mom that why. I'm in desperate need of help. 
I also have a very bad relationship with one of my sisters. We cannot be on the same.room together. My mom always blames me for getting into fights with my sister. But I get really angry at my sister because she takes my clothes without asking and ruins them. I know, pathetic. But my mom doesn't do anything about it. She just tells me to leave my sister alone because she is going through a hard time (boyfriend issues) but I told my mom that I have waaay more.problems then my sister. I have terrible self esteem ( I hate my body.and think I'm unattractive) typical girl issues but my has gotten to the point where I have been to pro Ana sites and am considering to go on crash diets. I know its bad but I just want to lose weight. I have horrible anxiety and depression. I ttold my mom that I don't care if I walk outside and get hit by a bus. My mom does absolitley nothing about it. She just tells me to stop saying those things. But how can I stop when that's how I feel? I am also seeing a psych and taking paxil and clonazepam for anxiety.
I am 19 years old and I should not be saying these things and I should not be suffering like this. I cry almost everyday. I should be having fun, going put with friends, etc.
I am screaming for help and no one is answering. Please answer me. I need help on my relationship woth my mom. I believe that she plays a major role in how I act towards her. I also believe that,, if I do have it, endometriosis is playing a significant role on this as.well.
I am also an equestrian. I ride horses and I believe that horses have healed me through other difficult points in my life, ex: both grandparents dying a few hours a part, having to live with my aunt upstate and go to a new school, helping me with my anxiety, anger and depression. And the list.can go on forever....unfortunatley I have not been actively riding for a year now. I believe that if I get back into it, the horses will heal me and I won't have to take meds anymore. I also feel like a freak for taking meds. I told my mom and psychologist that I think I belong in a mental hosspital bc I feel like a freak and a crazy lunatic at times. Again....my mom blew me off.
please help. I know I am at fault here but I believe my mom lays a part in the way I am.
p.s. if you want to know I have anxiety because I am afraid of getting sick and going into the hospital.