Hi. I've been under an extreme amount of stress over the last two years. Now, like the normal person, I've had stress before and you deal with it, right? But this has been one thing after another with no break for a long time now. I've had a lot of worry over my teenage child.  Then I had some health issues, then sick cats that just wouldn't get better and the stress over the vet bills and our finances, our marraige has been strained for some time. I think you get the drift. My daughter is actually doing much better and my health is getting better. 
I thought I was handling everything pretty well. I'm the one who makes all the appointments, runs the cats to the vet, ect. 
My husband just suggested to me the other night that he thought I was depressed. I told him I'm not depressed, I'm stressed to the max. I guess I don't handle stress very well. Maybe if it was just one thing at a time,  but I've had so much thrown at me, it's been pretty overwhelming. 
So I guess my question is, can stress over an extended amount of time lead to depression? How would I know which it was? If I describe my symptoms can you all tell me what it sounds like?
 I have been crying more (mostly over my worry and grief over my daughter).
I'm not sleeping well. I wake up throughout the night.
I'm easily distracted and forgetful.
I'm easily annoyed and extremely touchy (especially with my husband).
I feel like my stomach is always in knots. 
I feel restless. I can't totally relax. 
I love to read but it's hard to concentrate anymore on what I'm reading.
Every little thing is getting to me. For instance, I thought I was through with the sick cats and then my cat got a UTI and even after the antibiotics she's still peeing on our carpet downstairs or a few times on my bed. Each time I've felt like crying when I find it. 
I'm tired all the time.
It's hard for me to get excited or care that much about anything (except my 3 year old. He's my little sweetie).
I can't seem to just let go and have fun. I want to.
I can't remember when I last smiled.
To tell you the truth, I don't feel like I get enough support from my husband. I try to talk to him but he doesn't really listen.
  The only times I feel any peace or hope is when I read God's Word and pray (which I don't do often enough). 
 So, what do you guys think? Is this stress or more? And what are some ways to help relieve some of that stress? I've always tried to be as natural as possible. 
I think part of this is my type of personality. I'm a very deep person to begin with so things affect me deeply. My daughter's the same way. 
I just want to feel better and have some energy again. Most days I'm just dragging. What can help? Sorry so long! :) Thanks!