Hello to all those who are here in this forum and suffer this debilitating mental ilness. The last 7 weeks has been a pure hell for me,having one of the bigest  crisis these last 15 years of my life. The first big episoded was when my father died of cancer 18 years ago and the day we where having a service at the church for my fathers soul and at that moment also was another mass for a young woman that I new and she has died giving birth to her son because of the amniotic fluid, from that day on, In my mind my father dead and her dead become conected with pregnancy and given  birth to a child, sadly I was pregnant at he moment and my obsesion was that ivwill die and will leave my 3 years old girl and also the new baby . The traumatic ilnnes of my father, the months and moths trying to save him from cancer and finally not been able to do it makes me flet from there that any pregnancy will take me to dead. After year of that I moved here to USA and  got pregnant  again and the OCD came back ready to tell me that i will die if i had that child, at the end the medications and stress  made me loose my child. Then i had some good years of peace but thebOCD found a new friend called Rabies, this become my obsesion and never let my little daughters touch almos any animal becuase OCD said. All the animals. Will pass you rabies. Those days where very dificult for me and was the period of the tragic events of 9/11 that got me worse about animals and my children, expend months and years criying and waiting for them to die of that crazy rabies stuff. Then life was getting better, I got pregnant again  and simply i acepted that this was the time i would die with that amniotic fluid going in my body ,killing me and leaving. Them without a mom - a crazy one for sure- finally my baby boy was born and i was there in the room waiting for the dead sentnece i put on my head the moment a new i will have a baby, never happens,,no problems at all and when back with my baby afrer 9 months of pure obsesion of dead and leaving  them alone.But OCD is a real B*^%#+¥£€. And never gives up. Years later my middle daughter become very ill with anorexia  and this boke up the monster again. One day without reason I decided that every member of my family had HIV, the grade of madness that came in my mind and in mi life almost destroy me fisicaly and mentally. I was cheking every place i  visit for seringes with blood, i was absolutly convince that my son was pinch at school with a drug seringe and for my daughters they will havenany wayvposible.. Those times my middle daughter become Bipolar and a cutter, she tried to kill herslef 2  times, and my mind.  went down to the end of the abism,lost 30 pounds on 2 weeks, and i was driving in that state of desperzonalization and absolute absent from reality to visit my daughter in the mental ward for weeks. Obsesed with the idea that she may cask HIV inside the hospital and the other maybe in the movies, or touching blood from other people. After all that finally i had like 4 years of small OCD intrusion but i. Was able to control my mind, until this summer, I went ouside of the country, and in one of my train trips i had an accident relate to blood and seringes, then he is back,OCD is back,strong and proud, full forse that  send me to the ER and made me los 15 pounds in ttwo weeks and caounting.  Sufering a lot of desperzonalization, unable to eat,work or excersice in any manner, completly obsesed and convinced that i have HIV and i will not be able to be save or even recover from the emotional turmoil , my body is debilitating more, mi mind is acomplete mess and i feel like im in a cage,trap with HIV and OCD laught it at me.  Now im not sure what is worse in me, the pure obsesion with HIV, the rituals,the mess in my head and body or the clear cristal pain that i see in my clidren eyes everytime i get paralize with horrendus statesmof panic and turbulent moment of extreme anxiety. Can you relate to this? I can imagine no body will have to live like this andnsome times worse than i had write here.  If you suffer the same,please let me know if you found some kind of middle ground to keep this monster far enoguth from me before i end in the ER again in lest that two weeks! god bless you all !