Hello, I’m 17 and I feel I’ve been abused and don’t really know what to do.
 As long as I can remember my father has been mean to me. He always called me things like moron, idiot, worthless, just constant insults for no reason. He seemed to always be mad at me, I specifically remember wasting several of my birthday wishes on him, that he would just miraculously change. He turned my away from sports completely. When I was little, I tried many things. I wanted to be like the other kids but always ended up hating the sports because my dad always told me how bad I was and that I wasn’t trying. I remember one time he got so mad after a soccer game (that I played in, despite my fever of 101) he whipped me with his belt.(On my bottom) I was so scared to tell him that I just went… He never really did anything physical though, that is the worst he got with that.
 My mom always said that was his way of showing that he loved me.
 Last summer my dad got angry with me again for not knowing how to cook spaghetti. He exploded on me, and I returned the favor for the first time. I told him that I hated him and asked him ‘what kind of father treats his son like this’? I have never been so angry in my life, I was shaking. I told him I wasn’t going to talk to him anymore. I ran to my mom, in tears, telling her how much I hated him for the first time in such emotion (she already knew I didn’t like him though) I told her that she had to do something and that I couldn’t live like this anymore. She said she would do something : She always did. After standing up to my dad for the first time ever, I feel reborn… that didn’t last long. (although I didn’t talk to him nearly as much after) About a month or so later I realized that once again she wasn’t going to do anything, and that she was part of the problem because she ignored me.
I’m sick of this, of everything. I know there’s a problem because lately I’ve been doing a lot of thinking and I realized two things.
1.	I have no self-esteem. I never want to do things in front of people and I’ve never even asked a girl out.
2.	I realized why I play video games so much. Because it is an escape from my problems.
 I want to leave them, I want to live a normal live but I don’t know what to do. I need advice…
 Just for the record this is the first time I’ve opened up about all of this.