I have bipolar but never really had bad depression with it. Years ago I did suffer from depression..just like a dark cloud following me, & I cant find happiness anywhere! I know theres been a lot of changes in my life, new job (7 months ago, a break up with my fiancé, (5mths ago), etc) but I just cant seem to see any kinda of silver lining like I use too. I had an event last week that really upset me. But even b4 then I felt it coming on but chose to ignore it & go on with my life & try not to cry & just push thru. I feel like all I do is go to work & come home, everyday. The weekends I hardly do anything, unless an event is planned, like a birthday or baby shower etc. & im 28! (well Saturday I will be..even more depressing of course for us ladies im sure) I’m not sure if it was bc I was so active when I was in a relationship and now all my friends are still in one and really don’t have time to just hang out with me. It just  seems like something bad always happens (or stressful) and not just bad but hurtful things, not the everyday someone is pissy at work..but family members stabbing me in the back or my only friend I was hanging out with talking serious crap behind my back that could actually change ppl’s view of me..which wasn’t true. But the main thing that kicked this in gear..made it worse I guess..is the visit with my psychiatrist Friday. (the back story) Some already know I was dependent on pain meds for this bursitis (now found to be pirimorfis syndrome where this muscle is in flamed in the hip and then compresses the sciatic nerve..so now its not just muscle pain but severe nerve pain), so I began to feel guilty for over taking my pain meds..which I know w my degree, guilt not dealt w causes depression. So after seeing my psychiatrist, who knew this next visit if my general doc was going to have to put me on pain meds while doing therapy for help w the compression, so that I could function. My GP did a series of test & weve tried steroids, muscle relaxers, even supplements to see if I could try everything except for going back on the pain meds. In the end my GP decided to put me on them until we get this under control. Even making a plan for me. So I go in to see my psych I have been seeing for 7 years, & have been completely honest with, esp within the past 2 months about everything. We begin with everything normal we talk about w my meds, and he ask about the pain meds, b4 I could get more than “yes he wants me to take them” he started to go into a rant as if I were a crack head he had never met! He actually said the only ppl who need to be on narcotic pain meds (vicodene etc) are ppl who have cancer or r terminally ill..thats all! He Put me down, made me feel horrible for being in pain (YES I know pain meds are not what anyone, much  less docs think is right) but not only that, but he never changes my meds drastically, only 1 at a time (yet I told him I was extremely sleepy bc of being on now the name brand name seroquel not the generic & was cutting it in half) he said do that, cut my neurontin & my valium took me off flexiril (which I hardly take bc it makes me sleepy) he said  he was doing this bc I was sleepier! I feel so awful about that…I cant believe he did that to me. When he changes my meds its always 1 at a time bc HE says he doesn’t wonna change to much at once. Now im scared I may have an bipolar episode bc he I guess doesn’t like what I came in & told him. Im sorry this is so long, & if you feel that ppl shouldn’t be on pain meds, I understand, I do too (after going thru it and hearing all the storys) if something else helped and I didn’t try all with other meds/therapy. I just don’t know how to get passed any of this! I feel like I just wonna crawl in a hole and never come out! Im in pain, don’t wonna take meds, need to made to feel bad about it, diff docs say different things.  I have no one to talk to or who understands! Idk I just need a comforting ear! Please