If one really can still have good meaning in one's life despite his/her depression and/or anhedonia, then good.  That all works out for these people then.  Them having no pleasant emotions and them being all down and depressed is nothing important to them and does not take away any good meaning in their lives.  
 These people are able to find good meaning since they are still living, still choosing to pursue their goals and dreams, still choosing to focus on and do things in their lives, and are not giving up on life and committing suicide.  So that is all fine and dandy for them.  How anyone can still find good meaning in their lives living like that is far beyond me though.
 But as for people like me, it is drastically the opposite situation.  I absolutely need my pleasant emotions in my life.  My life and composing dream are an utter waste to me if I don't have them.  Even if I was a composer who had a genius talent and was the next greatest composer who changed the world, even that would be an utter waste to me without my pleasant emotions.
 So if I had to live most or my entire life anhedonic or even worse, down and depressed, then there would be no doubt about it.  I would end my life right then and there on the spot.  Some people would say to me that would be a waste of life for me to end my life since I could of still done great things.  But like I said before, to these people it is meaningful for them to live their lives despite their depression and/or anhedonia while it is meaningless (a waste) to me to live my life down and depressed and without my pleasant emotions.
 Think about it.  Not too many people are fine and nor can they find good meaning in their lives living most or their entire lives depressed and/or anhedonic.  Even Robin Williams ended his life and he was the type of person to find meaning in his life despite all his struggles, pain, and misery.  So it really goes to show you here that hardly anyone can find good meaning in their lives living most or their entire lives depressed and/or anhedonic.
 As a matter of fact, I think it would be a mental disorder for someone to find good meaning in their lives living most or their entire lives depressed and/or anhedonic.  It is only natural for us as human beings to live by the pain/pleasure principle.  That is, for us to find good meaning in our lives living for our pleasant emotions and avoiding pain and misery.  Although we do find good meaning in sacrificing our pleasure to help someone else out and to pursue our goals and dreams, it gets to a certain point where it is a mental disorder as I will now explain below.  
 Just as how a sociopath would have a mental flaw/disorder for finding good meaning in harming innocent living things and people since that is not how we normally function as human beings, it would also be a mental disorder for us to find good meaning in our lives living most or our entire lives depressed and/or anhedonic.  I don't have that mental disorder and nor would I ever have it.  Therefore, you cannot possibly expect me to be fine and live most or my entire life depressed and/or anhedonic.
 Just as how an empathetic person cannot possibly see and understand how a sociopath can find good meaning in his/her life torturing innocent people and living animals since this empathetic person does not have the mental flaws and defects that this sociopath has, I am also unable to see and understand how a depressed and/or anhedonic person can find good meaning in his/her life while depressed and/or anhedonic since I am not that type of person either.  
 Just as how the empathetic person will never find good meaning in his/her life from torturing innocent people and living things, I will never find good meaning in my life being depressed and/or anhedonic.  Neither would I be someone who would choose to not commit suicide in the event that I had to live most or my entire life depressed and/or anhedonic.  It's just not who I am.  I would choose to save myself from all the meaninglessness and pain/misery of my depression and anhedonic by ending my life.  But, of course, I am choosing to live for a possible recovery of my pleasant emotions and nothing more.
 ~NOTE TO READER:  THIS POST IS CONCLUDED BELOW!~