When I was 3 years old my mother was late picking me up from preschool and I have a vivid memory of waiting in the church hallway where the school was located. Associated with this same memory is a man unzipping his dress pants. They were a reddish brown color. This was my youngest sexual memory which my mother assisted me is determining if it was real or not after I described the hallway & the doorway I was waiting by she confirmed that the location was real.
My next memory was at around the age of 5 when I was drawing pictures of a man with a very large penis that was actually longer than his legs. At this age I also I approached my father and asked if I could see his penis. I refused me. However, i asked repeatedly becoming upset when refused.
My todays standards, I was severely abused by my mother as a child. Many neighbors from my past have identified her as being overly stern, or they actually said abusive, when describing their memories my early life. 
When playing with Barbie dolls, I would have my Ken doll being aggressive with the female dolls hitting them and shoving them around and doing sexual acts with them.
I masturbated frequently and at night I would shove my stuffed animals, dolls and toys in my pajama bottoms.
At 12 I was taken to a remote area by a 19 year old man who proceeded to force me to give him a blowjob and I was numb & didn't fight back even though I was disgusted by what he was having me do. He continued to rape me & force his intentions on me for years.
I am now 50 & I have had many failed relationships with both men & women. Most recently with a man who beat me severely, was emotionally abusive, would force me to remain in the bedroom for days at a time & insisted on sex even when I wasn't interested & eventually was arrested for domestic violence and is in jail. 
I have been treated for depression & mental health issues my entire adult life. Each time I was medicated.
I am dealing with PTSD, anxiety, dissociative identity disorders, panic attacks as well as TBI from the beatings.
Do my young memories & actions depict that I was molested as a child? Would this also explain the inability to say no or fight back when faced with any form of abuse?