So hey, I'm me, I didn't know where to turn to. I've been in and out of this "hole" for about three years now. I'm 17, nothing is truly entertaining, more-so; if I find something entertaining, I feel guilty for feeling good.
 This seems like a ramble so far so I'll try and break it up.
 Basically, I've been having moments lasting for up to two weeks where I don't feel sad, nor happy, nor angry; just frustrated, not at anything in particular, more-so myself for the realization that I shouldn't be like this and I haven't done anything about it. I'll laugh if someone says something funny, without thinking about what they said, I write songs about everything (music is all that I feel is a stable thing to keep me sane).
 Certain things seem to make me feel how I do when I'm not pessimistic, for example, I basically fell in love with a girl and every time I made her smile I would become happy, of course. Though this girl had depression and anxiety and I found her incredibly relatable. Though since she destroyed my heart, I've had nothing to make me bounce back and the last few weeks have been just getting worse. Notably, just last night, I got the bright idea of grabbing the scissors that were in the bathroom in an attempt to test myself, to test if I could still feel. In the morning I realized what I had done so now I'm here.
 Usually, (out of these numb periods of time) I worry about everything, from the way I walk, to saying hello to a friend through Facebook or whatever, even though they may be my closest friend (of which my friends think I should see a psychiatrist), I find myself regretting everything I say, every word could have another meaning. The recipient may have taken what I say the completely wrong way, even days later, I will ask them if they took what I said the right way, if I offended them at all, ect. life is Hell.
 There are too many words above to go through to see if I've missed something...
 Uh... 6 months ago, my best friend and my grandfather died, as well as my other grandfather coming close to death within a few weeks. Though I was numb at their funerals and other friends thought I was being heartless of which when confronted by everyone's judgmental words, I snapped and had a panic attack in front of them all. (Panic attacks occur with me quite frequently though I have never had the character to ask my parents if I can get checked for mental illness, for one they don't believe in it, and I can't get to a GP myself because I'm living out of town)
 That was probably a ramble but if I go through it, I'll probably delete it again like I did last time I wrote all this, so if there is something specific or unclear or if this sounded pointless, I can explain whatever just comment... or w/e