I am wondering if a few traits of my mother could be BPD...my mother has always been someone who says she does not have "time" to deal with other's views, can get extremely loud, talk extremely fast, and is dismisses ANY emotion I have (or others)..I know deep down, this is not truly HER, or her true being..i KNOW this..but, for many, many years, she has also criticized almost, nearly, every single thing i have ever said, belittles it/me, and says "you SHOULD have done it this way/that" in a very condescending tone.
 A few other things that occur are extreme irritability (over pretty much any single thing, all the time )..for ex: I could ask her, do you know what the weather will be later? and, if she doesn't , gets very defensive, yelling , sometimes screaming, "I don't KNOW ok??? why don't you ever watch the weather?" She just the other day (as MA was being hit by rare tornadoes, and I was coming up the basement telling my sis that "I think worcester is actually being hit now" ..just simply saying this..) She screamed to the top of her lungs, "SHUUUT UP nowwww....!!!!! You are annoying me and overreacting..stooooooooopppp nooooww!!"  This was in an extreme situation, and I was not yelling, loud , being uptight, or anything at all...ANY thing will make her yell (and has been since I was 2 yrs. old...) When I said to her, "I am not overreacting, please stop yellling at me." She came toward me with a fist, as my sister moved her to stop her: she has done this several times in my life..lunging at me , pushing me, shoving me, and one time, taking my head and slamming me into a picture frame....
 She also cleans day and night , and calls me lazy, and many other awful things all the time, saying, "why don't youEVER listen to me? you'll go and read these stupid self help books? and not listen to me? That is extreme disrespect...." These are only a few things/traits/examples..I simply want now her to get some form of help..I know it is very doable, and possible, but whenever i've brought it up, she has said, No, you have got it wrong, you don't need to be telling me anything.....What would someone /one do???? is this possibly related to BPD..I am not sure...I have a feeling though, but again, I do know she is a good person inside, and of course is wonderful (every one is!! just to be a human being...beyond radiant we all are!!!!) BUT my grandmother has said to me, if you don't try to help her, who will? (she knows she has denied even screaming /yelling/volatility while doing it ..saying "I am NOT screaming..you need to simply listen, and then I can go" while someone is very much listening..)
 I did not mean to go on and on here, there are more traits such as blaming me for everything, seeing mostly black or white, and then saying to me sometimes, "oh, now I need to think of your feelings? " if I say that you don't need to put me down/yell....Any tips would be very helpful to me..I know she is a wonderful person!!! I know she herself has had a very strict, yelling father herself, and that she can def. have help......my question is, is there any way to get her some treatment, mostly outpatient I was thinking, or does someone HAVE to consent to it? She has never hurt herself badly, or even tried, but has taken pans, raised them in air,  and said, if u do not leave, i don't know what i will do....would this be hurtful to her own being(i fear that as well, even though it has not happened)...thanks a bunch for reading this..again , did not mean to ramble..just trying to get perspective , and have not spoken of it to anyone except my father/grandmother...