I have been with my boyfriend for about 8months now. Things started off fast and intense. I love you's where exchanged within the first few weeks. I fell hard! About a month later I started seeing a change... he would get upset and angry with me over the smallest things. He was never my "ideal" man... he had just lost his license for a year because of marijuana possession, I drive him EVERYWHERE!! 30 years old.. living on his dads couch. He did have a good full time job that he does very well at.. he always had excuses for these thing ( im staying at my dads to pay of debt ) but he spends like 500$ a month on these shoes he is obsessed with.I looked past it all. We started getting into big fights and I could never figure out what the fights where over or even try to explain myself to him. Everything was my fault but he would say I always blame him. It left me feeling boogled! He would breakup with me after every little fight and it would last a couple days and I would take him back. I never know what is going to set him off or bother him, its always something different and on one day it will bother him the next its no big deal. We can have weeks of not fighting and then it gets bad again. He thinks he knows it all and is a saint and Im the one with all the issues. It makes me feel literally crazy!! We broke up about a month ago over something stupid im sure. and it lasted about 1 week until I gave in to his constant emails and text messages. I told him that he really has anger issues and he said he thought it was true and agreed to going to counseling together and working on things. Here I am on a Saturday balling my eyes out. I graduated cosmetology school yesterday, this is suppose to be one of the happiest times of my life but NO! I pick him up from work last night and we got invited to dinner with friends... he immediately starts by getting upset with my driving and not listening to where he wants me to park and I try to ignore and have a nice dinner. It was hell from there. Everything I said he had a rude , argumentative comment back (with my friend in the car) he is being completely disrespectful. Get in a fight at the bar and he leaves and walks back to my house. I get home and he is sleeping.. I wake up and he has his back to me w/ a separate blanket.. I get my things to leave and he doesnt say a word to me. I have my mom take me to pickup my car and on the way text him and tell him I need him out of my house by the time I get home... all he says is "gladly". He snuck out the back door so he didnt have to even see my dad. I get home and him and ALL of his things are gone. I havent heard a word from him in 4 hours and I am freaking out! I know I need to leave him and not look back but not having closer or anything is killing me. The worst feeling in the world is to be hurting so bad and the one person who can make you feel better is the one making you feel that way! I am at a loss.. can anyone PLEASE give me any advice or insight?? Sorry for blabbering... Im not good at these things.. PS. He has never been diagnosed with BPD.. and never been to therapy.