Hi, I really have no where else to turn with this problem. I work for a small company. My boss is the owner/president and theres me in the office and one technician (lets call him sam). The technician who works for us is a woman hater, he's absolutely horrible, Talks down to me, barks orders even tho he's below me in work position, and is constantly rude and only has nasty things to say. My boss has always been very nice before this technician was hired and I made it very clear to him to keep "sam" away from me due to the feelings that I have towards him and my boss completely understood and was very thoughtful about the situation. Now before Same was hired he was always Grabbing, touching, very sexual remarks, always tried to kiss me. But work wise he always treated me with respect and I felt important to the company. And with the economy the way it is now I dealt with the sexual harrassment bc I need this job. And I know its stupid I should prosecute for the harrasment, but I have many many reasons why I need this job, please just trust me; its worth putting up with and don't make that the issue here please, I beg you. However, now that he is spending so much time with this other technician in the field, my boss is acting exactly like "Sam". Ive been here for over two years and never once til now did i feel unappreciated, demeaned, and just horrible. I have never dreaded coming into work EVER, but when I think about work I get physically ill I dread it so much. I'm not doing anything different at work, still working just as hard and actually I've taken on more projects and brought in more money and clientel for the company. He's so rude, unappreciative, and just down right mean. I told him a couple of days ago "You're starting to become Sam's clone" and he was extremely apologectic and was great for a day and a half and now hes back to the jackass. What in the world can I do?? Do I express my feelings again, like "hey stop being a ****". I need help please. I've already begun looking for another job for the past 2 months, but in the Chicagoland area you're more likely to find a flying pig than a job. I've even gone as far and applied to McDonald's, they're not hiring. Please help.