Hello,
I was changed from Zoloft after taking it for 10 yrs to Cymbalta for aches and pains (I'm 63) and arthritis.  It helped but I tried to get off and felt like a steamroller ran over me until I told doctor after a mo and he put me back on it and the aches stopped. I also am on Synthroid for hypothyroidism.  This started in 2000 with the depression or vice-versa...both at same time.
I tried several meds until Zoloft was the answer.  I was my old self in no time and weight stayed normal just as it had my entire life into my 50s.  Never had weight prob at all in my life until the thyroid and depression hit.
Then my doctor moved and I tried so many trying to get back to normal because I had weaned myself off the Zoloft and also way down in Synthroid.  Major Mistake!!!  Finally I found a good doc and he wanted to get me on Cymbalta because in my 60s I began to have arthritis symptoms. It helped with that and the depression for a while but then, I lost a job and since I live alone I did not go out or anywhere and sank back into some depression.  I asked to try Zoloft again but I felt like I was hit by a truck because getting off Cymbalta was not good.  Now I am back on 120mg/day of Cymbalta and 100 mcg/day of synthroid (used to take 125mcg).   I tried 60mg Cymb/day but didn't feel as upbeat as I did normally so we added another 60 mg Cymbalta.  I stay up very late and sleep very late which is terrible but I don't have a job so I have no reason to go out and I don't feel like doing a thing.  I am back in the Black Hole of depression.
I am still not like I was on Zoloft so now I'm wondering if I should add Zoloft to my Cymbalta to pull myself out of this Black Hole of immobility.  I am also having dreams at night that are very agitating and agonizing because they deal with my divorce of 12 yrs ago, job loss and other issues.  I wake up feeling terrible from those dreams.  I don't won't to dwell in that past.
I was ok for 10 yrs on my previous doctor's Rx of 125 mcg Synthroid and 100 Zoloft.  Now I have gained 30 lbs which I've never ever done even full term pregnant, I never gained weight.  I am so depressed as far as that frozen feeling and not wanting to get out of bed or go outside or get groceries, etc.  I am frozen.
I tried to call him today but they are off.  I am going to ask what I could add to Cymbalta to pull myself out of this.  I wonder if Zoloft added would help.
When I was under the other doc's care and in my 50s, I walked 5 miles a day, every day and in great shape and never felt better.  Now I can't make myself do a thing. 
I also have had 5 foot surgeries and 2 hand surgeries (was hairdresser for near 30 yrs) and I can't afford the type of shoes I'd need to walk in.  My right foot is still not right because a bone was removed.  It hurts to walk unless I have orthotics which are extremely expensive. 
I wish I could turn back time.
 Thx
Rhonda