I have been with my husband for 10 years.  I believe he is emotionally abusive and a pathological narcissist.  Honestly, I dont understand.  He wont listen to me, if I am upset he gripes at me, he calls me names when mad like effin b&%^h and white trash.  Everything I do, he criticizes and tells me what I shoudl have done yet when I originally asked his advice he had none.  Last year, he spent $500 at a strip club and I was infuriated and hurt.  He tried to turn it aroudn and yell at me.  A month after that, I drank too much one night and got into a belligerent fight with him bc everythign had built up.  I ended up shattering my two finger son my right hand and had to have six hour surgery.  I almost had them amputated but luckily the surgeon wouldnt give up.  My husband wouldnt help me, he told me he "didnt feel sorry for me bc I did this to myself".  I was finishing my last semester before graduating with my BS and he wouldnt help me.  The entire time I was in school, he would yell at me for doing my homework on "his time" anf threaten to go out if I was going to do my work, then he would go out blowing our money and come home drunk.  Even now when I disucss how I managed to finish school with my shattered fingers and without being able to move bc the doctor feared they woudl crumble and I would lose them, he just says he was mad bc I broke them being stupid.  
 Once he left me asleep in the parking lot of a strip club while he went inby himself and spent $40.  The few times I have drank he has made me feel horrible so I dont drink.  One other time when we were first together I believe he sodomized me when I was past out.  I lost 21 pounds and he doesn t say anythign positive, he instead says I dont work hard enough to lose weight.  He has told me I am a terrible mom and he feels sorry for my daughter yet he constantly complains about everythign she does and says I let her do whatever she wants.  She makes good grades and is in clubs at school.  Her teachers love her.
 As I write this I get angry, then I think I overreact.  He lies to me about things and he is so financially irresponsible.  He screams at me when we dont have money bc I pay bills, he screams at me when I tell him cant spend money bc we odnt have it, he spends it anyway and we are broke and in debt.  He makes good money but has to buy all these toys to show off to everyone.  
 All the time I will get ready and come out he says "your wearing that?" He tells me I dont care how I look, that I am frumpy and that I should fix up for him.  I work fulltime andhandle everythign aroudn the house.  If I ask him to hold my hand or rub my back, he gets mad and says "what do i get out of rubbing your back"  then he proceeds to try and do sexual things with me which makes me infuriated and disgusted.  He cant touch me, out his hand on me, I feel completely untouched (if that makes sense).  When someone puts their hand on my back, it feels wonderful to me bc I am never touched nicely, He wants straight from a porn sex.  He really believes that is so great and it isnt.  He tells me I am asexual or he says "why cant you be sexy like other girls or a porn star?"  Basically, that makes me never want totouch him again.
 He cant have kids and he blames me.  He blames me for everything wrong in his life, for his actions, like he lied to me bc I ***** at him, etc.  There is so much he does that is just mean, cruel.  He tells me I am a heartless b%$^h bc I told him we didnt have money to buy a $200 outfit for his cousins funeral.  He uses thinsg I have tols him the past against me whne he is mad.  He doesnt care what we want, he only cares about himself.  
 Yet I NEVER leave, I feelbad, I feel crazy.  Everyone will think I am crappy and not realize he is the way he is bc he hides it form everyone.  I believe he broke my fingers that night by slamming the door on me and even when he saw them hanging of he wouldnt help me.  One time when I was asleep in the truck, he started jabbing his hands down my pants and I told him stop, he then grabbed me by the legs and pulle dme out and I landed on the ground on my back.  Maybe I am overreacting.  I dont knwo.  I dont knwo why I stay, why I make these choices.
 I need help!!!