So um... I'm depressed. Not officially. But I've done enough research to know for myself. The fact that I'm not sure kills me. So to summarize- I'm an intelligent, independent fifteen year old. A freshy in highschool. I have this really large group of close knit friends which is lovely yeah, but people come and go and are so easily forgotten. I guess for me it will be a touch different as I could be what one would call a "core" member of the group, as in I was one of the original few, there since the beginning. Physically I prefer the sidelines. I live in Illinois and am moving to Vermont in two months. Ive known I'm moving for two years. It was postponed because we didn't have time to buy a house and ****. I also have severe detachment issues. I can't live without my friends. It's not simply something I can get therapy for. Or something I'll get over. I won't just make new friends. I can't. I simply can't. I'd sooner die then leave them. I can't bear the idea that on July 31st Im just going to never see them. Any of them. School just ended and I had to say goodbye to a few already. Its too soon. I cant be saying goodbye. I know im going to kill myself. I cant live without them. Not that it matters because if anything itll just speed up the painful process of them all forgetting i exist.  
 Moving on. I went to therapy for a while but since my passionate need to know was rather overpowering my therapist recommende me to a psychiatrist who told me i was suffering from a "stressful lifestyle". Which was utter ********. Somethings wrong. Something is so wrong inside my head. Everyone tells me that the proffessional know best but if someone is THAT far off from what i feel then i dont see how that makes even the slightest bit of sense. So i was wondering if anyone out there was willing to recommend any solid methods to explain why i believe i should get a second opinion or a brain scan, something to prove anything. Or if they know of a good place or anyway i can get help. Please.