I dont even know where to start, but maybe i can get some advice from here. It is so hard to even touch on what i going on, but ill try. I got raped by a guy i used to work for, and his friend. It was horrible. I was just out of school, and my friends had become distant from me. I was hanging around the people who i worked with. One night, this guy, whos parents were my boss, raped me with his friend. I told them to f*ckoff so many times, and laughed it off, but it happened anyway. I was petrified and couldn't move, so they did whatever they wanted. After it happened, i was in shock.  I didn't tell anyone. My brothers would have killed the guys if i had, and my mum and dad live away from me. I am a pretty strong person normally and i didnt want this guy to get to me, so i kept working where i was. The guy who i worked with straight away spread rumours about me having a gan*bang etc... and people started saying things to me. I hated it, but pretended that it wasnt effecting me. Anyway, to sum this **** up, I didnt tell anyone and tried to deal with it on my own. Not long after i met a beautiful guy, we've been together for about 2 years, and we saw this happy future together. We love each other, more than words. 
 But, about 8 months ago he asked me if something had happened with these 2 guys. At first i cried, and lied to him saying that nothing had. Eventually i told him, but it didnt come out right. It actually came out with me blaming myself for everything. This ******* had destroyed my name, and subconciously it just destroyed me. 2 years on from it happening to me, i didnt even see it as rape. I blamed myself for the whole thing, and saw myself as a slu*t.
 We spent about 4 months having the most cronic fights, and my boyfriend was going to leave me b/c he thought i was a sl*t too. I wans't going to let him leave for the wrong reasons but no matter how hard i tried it came out slowely and so rough. He even said i had been raped, and i told him it wasnt like that because i didnt get bashed while they did it, and i didnt have blood on me. Anyway, the past 2/3 months, what really happened has come out. We found a psychologist for me to see, and she is helping me immensly. Our relationship has gone to the wayside, but what we feel for each other it certainly still there. I am a wreck now, but realise that i have to get worse before i get better. It is so slow and taxing. I feel useless and worthless so much of the time. Then i get angry or just so upset i dont see a point anymore. I have told my family, mum is helping me. but i refrain from talking to my brothers and dad b/c they just say get over it, move on etc etc... Noone really knows what to say. I i understand that. 
 Luke, my boyfriend, has so many questions, about how i have reacted to this happening, why i didnt tell anyone, how it came out. Until recently, we have terrible arguments, because it is so hard for him to understand how i have dealt with it, and why only now i am so upset. While he struggles with it, he does believe me, i think it is so hard for him though. He says the relationship is not going to work because he will kill the guy who did this if he sees him. He tries to cut the contact wiht me, so we can get out "lives back on track", but always contacts me again. He says he is worried about me and misses me. We love each other, and cant walk away from that. 
 We are not going to stop talking, because we are worried about each other, and it doesn't work. He has noone to talk to, and while it is so upsetting, it is also relieving when we tolk together about all this stuff. I suggested that we go and see the psychologist i am seeing. She might be able to give him some answers? I am trying to explain to him that he needs to talk with a professional too, because he is on a constant rampage, and when he sees the guy who did this, he will not be able to control himself. Obviously, i dont want his life to be ruined because of his anger. 
 What can we do? Do any guys have any advice about what help we can get, or my boyfriend can get? Both of us want to be normal again, and i dont really think that he wants to give the realtionship up. He doesn;t think he has any other choice. 
 Please, if anyone has been through anything similar, or if there is any professional help that we can get together. Can you please let me know. We dont know what to do at this point.
 Thankyou.