I’m 16 and I have never had a boyfriend. I don’t have any guy friends whatsoever. I kind of find it hard to make guy friends. I always ask my friends for advice and they tell me: “Just make some guy friends..” and im just like O.O. Wow. Big help. LOL. I kinda feel like all they guys in my school already have girlfriends, and the ones that are single just don’t seem to be interested or friendly. I honestly don’t have very high self-esteem. I don’t smile a lot. My hair is ugly and curly and dry-looking. Ugh. My friends always tell me how pretty I am, but I never get comments from boys, unless they were sarcastic remarks. I try to put on makeup like mascara and eyeliner, foundation and concealer, and it somewhat makes me feel better about myself, but sometimes I feel like a clown. I don’t even have many girl friends either to be honest, let alone guy friends. I’m usually one of the floaters in high school, like one of the people that doesn’t quite fit in. There are some days where I am okay with myself, and there are some days when I just want to roll into a ball and cry. Some people tell me I don’t take care of myself. Sometimes I feel like there is no use in making myself look pretty because nobody will notice, nobody will care. Not to mention I am raised in a strict manner. I am not allowed to date. But I am hoping my parents will see it through if I find someone special in my last two years in high school. I am just hoping this year will be better in the “boys” department. Maybe I am just not ready for this dating stuff. I feel like I am surrounded by friends who all have boyfriends and who all have somebody they like. I feel like everybody is dating, or has dated. I currently don’t like anyone.  But I am hoping this year, somebody will make me like them. I tend to think most high school boys are immature jerks, since I am quite mature for a 16 year old girl. Many of my parents’ friends are amazed at my maturity and good judgement. I also have social anxiety. It’s become  bad. I enjoy having a quiet and peaceful life at home, watching my youtube videos on craft ideas and listening to my favorite music. I don’t usually like to be around big groups of people, especially in school. The thought of school itself makes me really nervous. I always feel that everybody is going to judge me and what I wear, how I look, and who I associate with. I hate it. I just want to peacefully go to school without worrying what people will say.