Well first of all I'm a guy. I never really fit in much because I have been moving every couple of years my entire life. I move because my mother is a pretty successful worker in a large company I won't name... and I don't hate her for moving me around, after all I would feel horrible if my teen emotions got in the way of her success in life. Anyway, thats not what's making me feel so bad all the time. See, I'm sexually submissive. I'm not gay, trust me on that, but I am definitely submissive. I don't know if it's because I couldn't ever fir in from my moving or I was just born that way... but the problem is my personality is the opposite. My non-sexual personality, the one everyone who has ever known me knows me by, is just a normal guy. A guy who is just like everyone else, just trying to fit in, and those feelings are sincere! I normally feel like acting like a normal guy! But I can't! When I'm turned on I become an entirely different person! I become submissive, timid, emotional. I become the complete opposite of what my usual personality is. It's just torture. I can never meet anyone and have them know me because, no matter what, they will always expect me to be one way, when in fact, my brain and body are telling me to act another. I'm just feeling so down now because I know that I'll never fit in. 99.99% of people aren't like me. 99.99% of people don't have two entirely conflicting personalities. So 99.99% of people won't accept me for who I am/won't understand me. I don't think I'll ever be able to know anyone who knows me for who I really am. Thats because most people wouldn't accept me and they would judge me if they found out about me. I can't tell anyone who I really am because I don't know anyone. I can't know anyone because I just keep moving. I'm usually not emotional about this or about anything for that matter but now I just can't shake this sad feeling and I can't stop thinking about how I'll never be able to know anyone who truly knows me. I'll never be able to have a real life friend who knows me and accepts me for me... I can't risk telling the wrong person about me either, my school is small. Everyone would know in a day, and you know how fast gossip spreads.