I don't remember when it started, or why. Keep in mind that I am 13 years old (restricted freedom and resources).
I don't really know how to start this off, so please bear with me. This might be long.
 I have bad memory. Both long term and short term. 
If you ask me to remember something, I would need to think before saying anything. Sometimes I won't be able to remember at all.
 I can't concentrate. Therefore, I'm not learning anything in school.
I can't think straight either. I'm unable to organize things in my head, my grades have fallen immensely because of it. In order for me to do something, I need to have everything laid out in front of me, clearly.
My hands also shake. Sometimes slightly, and sometimes a little more forcefully. But they always do.
I don't like socializing more than necessary. Going to parties, out with a group of more than 2 friends, with strangers.... I can't do that. I don't want to. I have friends, but I'm not the type who wants to get out of the house and be with them all the time. I'd rather be alone. I try to talk to my mother, but if I get too deep into the conversation I feel tears welling up. I don't want to cry in front of her. She never believes me anyway.
I feel helpless. Everything is dulled.
 I also feel weird. In a sense that...my self reality is distorted. I, literally, feel like there's a barrier between myself and reality. All of my senses are dulled. I feel like my senses, mind, and thoughts are separated from my body. I'm aware that this isn't the case, but I always feel this way. This is a very important factor for me, a big problem.
 I don't want to go to school. It just makes me nervous. If someone mentions anything that has to do with school to me, I have an internal freak out. Without showing it on my face.
 I feel like I'm going to explode. My mom won't believe me. She thinks I'm only saying this to get out of school, or for attention. She herself was diagnosed with depression and anhedonia when she was young. I thought she would understand.
 I don't know if this is depression, another mental illness, or something else entirely. Something is wrong. 
This is interfering with my outlook on life itself.
 Help, please.
I really don't know where to turn.