Hello Dr. P. Forster, 
 please allow me to introduce myself first. I'm a successful professional (a tenured professor at a major research university) who is originally from Eastern Europe. The question is not about myself but rather about my mother.  Please bear with me - an introduction to our situation is needed here. 
 My Mom joined me in the US 5 years ago. Before that, I spent 9 years in the US on my own studying in the graduate school and working. My mother always wanted to join me here - she's been divorced for a long time and I have no siblings. She always felt very lonely back in the "home country" and fell into a serious depression; most of all, she missed my presence. Her entire life is, essentially, about me...
 After she came to the US I hoped her depression would get better. She keeps taking her medications here as well (amytriptiline); unfortunately, the things are still not that great. She feels very dejected here because she   hasn't been able to find a full-time job since coming to the US and now she's dependent on me financially. She's only in her early 60's...Given that she worked all her life before coming to the US and was always financially independent, this has been a severe blow for her. She has to live with me and, of course, all of this is quite hard on her. She speaks fluent English but she was an English teacher back in the home country and so here she's without a profession. We live in a small college town so there are not many options for her around here. She's also in that age where trying to acquire a new profession is not very meaningful. She's often quite depressed, extremely anxious and irritable. Sometimes, she can lose her temper at the slightest provocation. I'm trying to walk on the tiptoes around her but I"m not always successful. Often, I feel like I'm the one to blame for this situation - if I didn't decide to settle in the US, she wouldn't be left on her own back there and wouldn't have to come here just to be with me. 
 I would like to help her somehow but I'm not sure what to do. I would love her to talk to a local psychiatrist but she does not want to. Back in the home country, she tried many other medications before starting on amitriptyline and many of them had bad side effects (rashes, hives, even fainting). Now, she says that a doctor will try to make a guinea pig of her and she doesn't want that anymore. I'm always trying to be  extremely tolerant and respectful; we have been always very close throughout my entire life. 
 Do you think you may be able to suggest some new approach to this situation? Perhaps, I need to do more to help here morally but I'm not sure how. It pains me greatly to see her suffer like that for years now.
 Yours,
Michael