If you spot my posts on other forums, I am trying to get as many varied responses as possible, so trying as many forums as I think might pertain to the issue.
 My cousin is almost 19, and has been a rather depressed type of person pretty  much his whole life. His upbringing wasn't great, his parents have a very disagreeable dynamic, and divorced a few years ago, and both are with other people.  His mother has her own domestic issues, and I guess his father probably does too.  My cousin has been almost sort of fending for himself for some time now, he dropped out of school over a year ago.  He receives money from both parents, and it is not the financial aspect he is alone on, but the emotional.  He started to turn more to drugs , I do not know how long ago.. but all I know is that he does many different pills, and drinks.  He has always talked about suicide, joked about it, and just brought it up  more than the average person.  Obviously thinks about it a lot. I guess being the typical 'tortured soul' of a musical artist, most just wrote it off for a while, or didn't know what to do.
 NOW, I am hearing for the last couple months he has been saying when he gets mad and throws his little tantrums  (He has developed into sort of a toddler, almost.  spoiled, demanding, self centered, etc.) he tells anyone off, cusses them out etc. at the drop of a hat. And so many of his family members have heard him use suicide as a threat.  Well now he has been saying recently, apparently, that he is going to take as many people as he can when he goes. 
This is rather concerning.  Especially on a personal level considering I have been on his 'list' for quite some time now..
 Well, just yesterday the family catches wind that he has just bought a hand gun.
 There is no reason why we should not take this seriously.  And I am infuriated by the idea of considering I should fear for my own life, at the hands of some "psycho" that is my "cousin".  With the anger aside, I am just here to ask, what can I do?
 Is there anything at all I can do?  Is there any institutions (Ohio area) where you can forcibly emit a person on account of being a danger to himself and others?  I know I have no proof of this, and the cops can do nothing.
What do I do?
 I don't want to just sit back and wait for the day to come... And I honestly feel as though my life, and those of my family members is truly in danger.