I've been put into a few mental hospitals when i was younger and only got classified with AD/HD which shocked me considering what got me in there was when i decided i wanted to break my skull on the ground. i began by doing hand stands and letting my head slam down on the floor over and over. most of the time when i get stressed or aggravated i gain this almost super strength i've broke car windows with my head I've broken house doors just by slamming them. but i have many more problems whenever i had to talk to my father when i was younger i would carry a knife in my back pocket just in case he said something i dident like. I continually think about hurting people but not just hurt people torture them while i share my thoughts and opinions on everything from psycology to politics but recently my bursts of anger have been more sudden and scary i have no friends cause i believe the only reason people have friends is so they can use them at some point in their life. i also find my self very confused from the moment i wake up to the time i sleep but since i suffer from insomnia i usually don't stop thinking i constantly think and i don't know why i'm highly intelligent with and IQ of 184 but ive gotten F's constantly since the 5th grade I'm an adult now and i see where the problem becomes a real problem i can't keep a job for more then 2 months no matter how i try and i find myself screaming and crying for no reason.
 I also can't seem to stay on one topic or finish a whole topic no matter how i try i continually switch back and forth until i confuse myself draw a blank and get angry. so far while typing this i've gotten up broke my car side mirror and punched myself in the face numerous times. I'm at my wit's end and i don't know where to go from here because i have no health insurance and i can't keep a job long enough to get insurance.    any suggestions on where i can go? I've considered putting myself in a mental institute but i can't stand confiment. 
 also i don't believe that i'm schizophrenic because i'm fully concious but i lose all control over what i do. and it hurts worse when im angry and i don't punch sumthing i'll try to stop but it drives me insane and makes me want to punch it harder and make it hurt me worse the longer i hold back