Dear All,
 I am new to this community.
I got married 2.5 years back and used to stay with my husband and MIL.
There were a lot of rough phases but somehow we all pulled for as long as we could.
Now I have moved back to my parents because I had reached my threshold.
I am sharing a few reasons because of which my married life has been hammering.
Most importantly, my MIL and husband are very emotionally attached and have always considered me as an outsider but now it was getting on my nerves.
 Please have a look at the problems that I faced:
1. MIL has the audacity to tell the DIL’s mother that your daughter is irresponsible (Siiiir chadhdhi hui hai!!)
Always, always unhappy with DIL 
Doesn’t want that her son and DIL should live happily 
After around 6-months of marriage, MIL told her Son that you have completely abandoned your mother and you do not spend any time with her 
Since then, the relationship between the DIL & her husband has gone down the drain since the husband is over-protective of her mother
  2. Emotional blackmailing by MIL when things are not done as per her wishes
not eating 
not speaking 
sad
3. Sweeper/ Garbage problem
Has become the duty of DIL to empty the garbage bin early morning
If she fails to do the same, tiff between husband and wife 
Now when the duty has befallen on MIL, an alternate solution of keeping the gate opened at night has been devised 
Was told that you did this even at parent’s place then  why not here
4. Problem with DIL getting up late on a holiday
No problem when the son gets up late every single day
5. DIL told that she doesn’t cook when she has a fight with her husband. Whom should she cook for?
Husband who sleeps till the time his wife leaves for office? 
MIL who gets up soo late on the pretext of going to ashram? 
MIL who hardly ever eats anything cooked by the DIL, constantly providing mental demotivation
6. If the maid doesn’t arrive, husband tells the wife to clean and mop because he cant see his mother working??
Why should the wife do this when she can easily get this outsourced? 
Why does the MIL does this when she knows that this will create a problem between her DIL and Son? 
It was decided that a cook/ maid will be hired but the mother and son have decided on their own that they don’t need a maid and no efforts are being put to search for a cook, only to malign again the relationship between husband and wife
7. SIL visited for a few days and at that time the DIL didn’t eat breakfast and was very upset in the evening also since the relationship between the husband and wife was strained:
This was taken very negatively by husband, DIL and MIL 
SIL played a drama of packing her bags and leaving (like she is treated by her SIL) 
She shouted very very rudely to the DIL 
Husband didn’t come for wife’s rescue, he was a mute spectator
8. Husband has completely lost interest in life, doesn't take the wife for any outing, doesn’t spend anytime when in the last 6 months:
MIL has attended 2 weddings because they were very important 
Husband and MIL have been very regular with their ashram duties (regardless of the fact that DIL is alone at home and that they deceived DIL because it was told to her and her family that they would be busy only in February and September which is a LIE)
9. When we got married, the DIL faced multiple problems:
The guests would be entertained in her room 
The food would be eaten on her bed 
MIL would stick around like a leech 
MIL asks the DIL the other day, you don’t have dining table on the ground floor in Kirti Nagar, then where would you have your food ( this she asked because she knows that the DIL is uncomfortable eating food on the bed)
10. Whenever there is a tiff between the husband and MIL:
Husband prefers to keep mum rather than sorting out issues, he has taken his wife for granted 
MIL takes the advantage of the situation by not speaking to the DIL 
Both the son and mother completely isolate the DL
11. Till date, the entire jewelry of the DIL resides with MIL and only the son and mother have an access to that locker:
Both the son and mother know that the DIL has taken a separate locker but they never open their mouth regarding this issue 
Husband is extremely indifferent at this front also since he doesn't want to upset his mom
12. Whenever the DIL falls sick and takes a leave:
The MIL also falls sick 
The MIL has never ever asked after the DIL’s health
13. Too much interference by the MIL
During some function at home, she constantly harasses by asking what are you wearing? What are you wearing? Mental harassment 
Lot of pressure to attend each & every function regardless of concerns for DIL’s job and heal
14. MIL and SIL are very strange:
They talk to the DIL about the previous girl and cousin with whom the husband was engaged 
They say things like your husband was smitten by the beauty of the Pune girl 
They say Honey is extremely pretty 
Why do they talk all such nonsense? Do they intend to break their DIL’s home? 
 I am very heart broken and very depressed