I'm not sure if anyone can help me but I just need an outsider's perspective right now. I'm 21 and my fiance is 28 we've been living together for 2 years and have a 3 month old daughter. I've been feeling for a long time that our relationship isn't how it should be. I get put down, made to feel like nothing. He is very jealous and doesn't allow me to be friends with men. He is afraid for me to return to work because he doesn't want me to be able to see other guys or " forget about him" . He often asks me  " you love the baby more than me don't you?"  To me this is an unfathomable question. Anyone I know who has children understands you love your child more than anything or anyone. Before I had the baby we lived in an apartment that I paid for and that I paid for everything in and he lived there for free. Then after I got pregnant we moved closer to my parents and into a house. I quit my job when I was 7 months pregnant and my parents have really been paying our way until he found a new job. So now he works and I haven't since I had our baby( my parents pay our bills and pay for HIS gas money and everything we need)  and yet he still comes home and asks me what I've done all day. Taking care of a baby is no excuse because to him it isn't hard. He says if you want to get something done just put her down and if she cries let her cry. He also yells loudly at her to " shut up"  when she cries, flicks her feet, and blows in her mouth. and he has elbowed her car seat, jarring it because he wanted her to stop crying in the car. He told me repeatedly when she was born that she was ugly and he "joked" about her not being his. In the hospital he said I was doing everything wrong, tried to take her out of the room to the nursery against my wishes so "he could get some sleep". I had to cry and scream to keep my baby with me. He won't change diapers and he won't even hold her or help me in anyway. I'm expected to do all the laundry and cleaning and to even have sexual relations if i don't want to. He will  get angry if I say no so I've just started doing it so he'll leave me alone. He asks for money all the time because most of his paycheck goes to back child support for his 2 other children that he hid from me at first. His ex wife left him after 2 years as well... all of this I learned too late to help me. He basically lives off me and my parents and treats me like I'm good for nothing.  I don't see my friends as often anymore. There are so many things I could tell you about but I just need someone to tell me that this isn't how it's supposed to be. I keep thinking that all people fight so I just need to stick it out until it gets better.  He's not always a mean guy that's why this is hard. He can be so sweet after being so mean and It makes me want to forgive him. I'm just worried I've lost myself and I'm worried about my daughter.  The house we live in my parents owned and gave to ME everything thing here is mine. So I could tell him to leave. But I wish sometimes that I was the one who could leave because it would be easier. I need advice please.