I guess my symptoms started when I was 15.  I got involved with recreational drugs, it began with canabis and I also took LSD on several occassions.  One day I was smoking canabis with my friends when I began to haullucinate and felt like I was outside my body. I didn't tell anyone about what had happened but I was scared and went home and told my parents I was unwell.  i spent the next two weeks in bed hoping this feeling would pass.  Gradually I felt less strange but I didn't really every feel completely normal again.  I am now 27 and I have been fighting with the feeling of tyring not to lose my mind and slip into to some sort of permanent state of haullucination.
 I have been able to learn to live with this feeling and have gone for months feeling normal but just getting on with things.  I managed to get through school with good grades, complete a university degree, travel extensively and now have a good job.  But over the years every so often without warning I become aware of feeling like I see the world different from everyone else.  i know right from wrong, what is real and what is not, I dont see people or objects that aren't there but I do see things that are there differently - the edges of objects seem sharper, I notice spaces between objects. Also I feel like I sink further in myself and i'm aware I'm looking out of my body.
 When I have felt like this before I have always seemed just to get on with things and try to feel normal again.   But recently I have been feeling like this and I feel like I am becoming withdrawn and reclusive.I don't want to go out with friends as all I can concentrate on is trying not to slip into some kind of mild permanent hallucination.
 This is the best way I can describe how I'm feeling.  Is this some sort of mental illness? is there anyone else who has experienced feeling like this? Is there treatments I can undertake to overcome these feelings?  I am only just admitting to myself that there is something wrong.  i just want to try and sort my mind out before it is too late.