Hello, my name is Bree. i would really appreciate any opinions because I'm completely confused. I met a man five years ago when I was 19, lost my virginity to him, first serious relationship. I know everyone has their good sides and their bad sides, but after trying to juggle each of his sides, I feel completely confused. He is actually a great guy, hes trustworthy, he spends much time with me(always chooses me over his friends and I never even ask him to) takes me out for nice dinner dates, goes out of his way to make me feel beautiful and special by bringing me flowers to work on a regular basis, makes me laugh non-stop, as well as other good things about him and our relationship which adds to my overall confusion as you will see. In the past, he was very controlling, ( I wasnt allowed to stay the night at my own house-according to him, I always had to go to his apartment, ect) but after 5 years, he has grown up ALOT and his controlling ways are gone I believe.But there is still one more problem that makes me question how someone soooo amazing, can do what he does. Sorry, this is of sexual nature..but if we are having sex and it hurts me, I tell him and he says "but it feels good to me" as if he wants to continue and disregard my pain, many similar incidences have occured. He is also into something that is his"favorite" thing as he says, anal sex, with I tried but is painful. I have started crying  when he does it and he'll say "im almost done". When I type that out, it sounds outrageous! If someone told me that, I would wonder how they could possibly put up with it!! I even questioned if maybe he doesn't realize I cried, but I know he does..he has to notice!! I even made point of letting him see so knew I wasn't going crazy. Hes been asking me for it again, I told him I do not want to do what hurts me so bad, but then he offers to take me out for a nice dinner, buy me whatever I want at the mall no matter how much it costs( which hurts on the level that he is willing to pay me (technically) in order for me to do something that hurts, Ive gotten really upset and told him "don't treat me like a prostitute, just because I am your girlfriend doesn't mean this is okay to do").......He has a giant porn collection of all anal videos so obviously he has some type of obsession or something...So, this is why I am so confused. How could someone that seems soooo great in almost every other area of long-term relationship, have a side that seems just as horrible!! Sometimes I feel like Im going crazy trying to figure it out. Ive had "heart to hearts' with him about it many times! at one point, he said " i thought it just made you uncomfortable, not hurt: but im sure Ive made it extremely clear that it does. I guess I do not know what to do. As crazy as it sounds, he truly is a great person (excluding the issues I just explained) and it truly confuses me how one so great could also be so bad. Its hard to find a great guy, and every thing else about our relationship is good. Please be honest and speak whatever you truly think if you reply... thankyou