My wife was abused physically, emotionally, psychologically and in other ways as far back as she can remember until the age of 19 when she ran away from home.
 I met prior to her running away from home and I am the reason she left, I asked her to marry me and she took that as her way out it seems and we were married. I knew she was abused but I did not truly know how much abuse she had lived with at the time we married. I did not come from an abusive home so it was something unknown to me. Ever since the beginning I thought I was strong enough for the both of us but 10 years later I'm not so sure anymore.
 My entire life I never got into arguments with anybody including my adult life while married to my wife with the exception of her. I served 10 years in the military until I was hurt and was medically retired but during my entire military career I never argued with anybody. I was always the mediator whenever there was an argument that occurred if I was around. People came to me for help to solve problems etc. I actually have training on how to de-escalate aggressive behaviors and situations and had to utilize this often as do most NCOs.
 My wife is the one exception. No matter what I do if she is in the least bit upset or just feeling bad one wrong thing can set her off into a tirade of yelling, cursing, accusations and threats. For the first few years I always stayed calm during these episodes and let her get everything out and eventually she would run out of steam or I would talk her into calm and the argument ended. As the years progressed she became worse and my patience wore thinner and thinner. Somewhere in the middle years 3-7 I remember one thing I told her, "I've tried and tried so hard not to argue with you, I've done everything I can but your forcing me to feel things I don’t want to feel... I just hope one day I do not become as angry as you." 
 To fill in some gaps. Holidays were always horrible. The first 3 years she would go visit her family for holidays like mother's day, Christmas, Thanks-giving etc and she would always come back home crying because her family let her down in one way or another. I would be there for her and support her and she did not see me as the enemy back then but her support system. As the years went on she grew further from her family and stopped visiting, then stopped calling and finally cut off all communication with them at all. This is when all the rage and abusive behavior started to get worse in our marriage. Whenever a holiday was approaching or an important event like me making rank or a birthday she would automatically be in a bad mood and just asking "Are you ok?" or "What's wrong?" would end up with me getting yelled at and the holiday or event would be ruined.
 One major thing she does when she gets upset is she will bring up every single thing possible that goes years back. She could be upset about the toilet seat being up, for example, but it will go way beyond that by the end of the argument. She will start with the toilet seat but then literally bring up something from 3,5,7...10 years ago that I may have done wrong. Then she speaks in absolutes like, "You never loved me.", "You never do anything that shows you care.", "You always think you are right about everything.", "You never help with anything.". Recently, the past 2 years, she has started to pack her things and say she is contacting a divorce attorney every time we have an argument. She has done this countless times... even as recent as an hour ago, hence this post.
 Throughout the years she has slowly told me about her abusive childhood/life while living with her parents. She ran away from home often to other friend's houses. She would pack her stuff then just run away. She told me she has been physically abused as long as she can remember by her father. From what I gather she has been hit and put into the hospital many times. I did not realize just how many times he has put her in the hospital until we recently found her medical records that covered the time she grew up in her parent's home. The medical records are in two separate books and each is about 1 1/2" thick. Granted a lot of the records are normal childhood sicknesses but a lot of it was "Patient claims to have fallen down." or "Patient claims to have slammed arms in car door by accident." and with each of those it will have a note stating, no parent/guardian present at medical facility. Her father would beat her then make her mother drop her off in front of the hospital... then my wife would have to lie to the doctors in the E.R. and after being treated she would either call a friend to pick her up or if she was lucky her mother would pick her up.
 Her father has contacted me on a few different occasions and they have all been bad. The first time I met him (keep in mind he is a police officer) he said he was going to fight me... we ran across him in a Wal-Mart and he was upset that I did not ask for approval to marry his daughter. Another time, years later, I ran across him at a gas station where he held me up for about an hour talking about my wife. The conversation started off with him apologizing about the past but slowly moved to calling my wife an instigator and saying she was the abuser in her family, that she was the one who hit people in her family and started fights. When he was through talking poorly about my wife I told him he had to be crazy if he thought I would believe his lies over my wife of 9 years, I then walked away and haven’t spoken to him since.