Hi I have been going to therapy on and off for a couple years and I am no better for it. to summarize the issue: I cut myself so bad can never wear short sleeves again cause of how bad the scars are, am miserable/sad, have a lot of anxiety, a lot of times I want to die but am also very afraid to die at the same time. my growing up situation was a nightmare, but im 30  now and cant seem to move forward. the last couple years I have had this overwhelming sense I am supposed to be dead, not that I am going to commit suicide, just this feeling and kind of reasoning im so sad cause im not supposed to be here I say it to myself in my head when I feel sad as some kind of way you know that explains it why I am the way I am. well in june I choked on some food and developed a swallowing anxiety. I have lost around 40 pounds since then from very limited eating, I am afraid to eat most things, I have finally worked myself up to certain things but even those things I can get myself to eat I am afraid when I eat so it makes the experience not enjoyable. well I forced myself to see a nurse who prescribes psych meds and after taking them for a month she tells me oh they can take 4-6 months to work when I question that its not working so I stopped taking them. I made an apt with my old therapist cause I requested his notes from our past sessions to try to figure whats wrong with m as nothing has helped me but when I asked him if some people just don't get better he says usually they do and he isn't sure why im not.  well this puts me in a situation where im like okay so I tried to get help but nothings working even after a couple years so is it just that this is how I will always feel as long as im alive? I  never expected to have a happy outcome or life, I just wanted to feel like okay and not think or imagine my death every single day, so im wondering like for some people like me is it possible no one will ever know why I am like I am or be able to help me. im just wondering if ive tried the drugs, ive tried the therapy, what else can I do? or should I stop wasting my time trying to understand something beyond  what will be understood? are some people like me just not able to feel anything but this?