My wife cheated with on me with one of her co-workers at her office. The day of her birthday while she was getting ready to go to work that morning, I surprised her with a slice of fancy pastry crying over the occasion, she confessed and blame me for causing her to cheat recalling arguments and my comments during the holidays telling her I was unhappy with her. I forgave her. That day she went to work late and came home late as she was with him. That night I told her to quit after a furious screaming fight but nothing when beyond that and neither one became physical as we have a 2y old at that moment. Next morning she texted the individual and immediately in front of me erase all her office contacts did and texts. Destroy the phone chip and I stone the phone in the back yard angry. Ever since she told me She will never tell me anything about her vulgar indiscretion. As I wanted to know EVERYTHING. Who was he, his name, where she went with him during working hours and after work, What kind of car he drove her in, If anything happen in his car, Where does he live, How does he live, Does he have a woman already or kids, How she lied in order to see him after work, If she skip work. What she told her bosses to leave early with him....ETC. Pretty much she fool everybody and to me she became the office ****. Having our photos on her desk and legally being married, baptize while pregnant as a christian in front of our congregation. 
Nothing matter to her or either her mothers calling her to pray occasionally while being with that man helped her prevent or reflect on her actions.  
I WAS NOT GONNA LET HER KEEP ANYTHING A SECRET FROM ME.. as she turned to her mother, father and church preacher for advise and all three told her I didn't have to know everything.
EVER SINCE THIS ACKNOWLEDGE HELP BY HER. I BECAME VERY ANGRY AT HER AND MY BEHAVIOR AS I WAS NEVER LIKE THAT BEFORE HAS WORSEN. I constantly scream at her and little by little she began to tell me everything how she fool me as I stay home caring for our son late into the evening till he went to sleep and I waited for her to arrive with the excuse of working late due to her supervisors needing extra help during the sandy storm situation. (She is a Civil Engineer with the DOT bridges division). 
Due to our financial situation she went back to work after a month. He never quit his position and She told him on her 2nd day of work. I knew everything. He reply not wanting any problems and wanting to stay away from her as not to lose his job. Her reputation,upcoming engineer license and raise are coming up. Still I'M MAD AS HELL as I THINK  he maybe disrespecting my wife over the office phone or asking to meet up with him in any of the building floor to seduce her again BUT IT COULD BE JUST MY MIND BEING IRRATIONAL. 
I HATE SCREAMING AND TALKING BAD TO HER.
How can I stop my angry screaming behavior
Help.!!!