O.k., so I have a bit of a problem here.  My wife and I have been separated for two months now.  I found out that she was trying to get a hold of one of her co-workers and she constantly sent him messages through facebook and at one point, borrowed money from the guy.  Like any other person would, I got furious and decided to take some time off from her for doing this.
 When I left, I made it clear the I wanted nothing to do with her after I asked around her work about her wanting to get with her co-worker and to my misfortune, she had been after him since mid last year.  She also asked for his phone number and for his home addreas.
 I confronted her about this and all she could say was that her female co-worker was the one who wanted to get with the male co-worker.  Well, I asked my wife to bring her female co-worker so we could clear thia up but my wife refused.  I went and asked my wife's female co-worker and she was oblivious to the whole situation and was quite upset that my wife brought her in to this mess.
 Well, to make it short, I tried to work things out with my wife but her sister sent me messages and left me a voice mail where she says that my wife doesn't want me any more and that I was a loser that never care for her (my wife).
 Is there any way I can sue my wife's sister for interfering?  I know my wife wanted to work things out but her sister doesn't allow my wife to have any communication with me once so ever.
 I know for a fact that my wife's sister is the one who benefits from our seperation since my wife helps her with rent, car insurence, and other bills like that.
 Also, when my wife took all my stuff out, her sister took out alot of my working tools and she convinced my wife to take out all of our savings from the bank but sadly, I allowed my wife to put the savings in her name.  I told my wife that if we aren't getting back, then I want half of our savings that we had and guess what?  Her sister said if I wanted half that my wife would take me to court and sue me for marital abandonment.  Who is that since my wife's sister was the one that told me that my wife didn't want nothing to do with me and that I was the one who walked out on her.
 Any advice would be very appreciatd.  Thanks.