Escitalopram: 10mg(morning) - 36 days (started 8th Jan)
Mirtazapine: 15mg(half an hour before bedtime) 9 days (started 4th Feb)
 M-29 non-smoker, vegetarian, non-alcoholic, 100kg weight
 I was prescribed Escitalopram 10mg for anxiety and moderate depression.
 I was prescribed Remeron (on 4th Feb) because after Escitalopram kicked in which was in the 3rd week, i started feeling a bit overactive and it badly effected my sleep.... I was till 4th Feb taking Zolpidem XR (prescribed to me as sleep aid as SOS)
 I also got the anxiety back after losing sleep in the 3rd week when I Escitalopram had made me overactive, plus my depression seemed to have gotten worse suddenly.... probably the stress induced by not sleeping well caused that.
 My Doc asked me start with 7.5 mg of Mirtazapine for the first 4 nights and then switch to 15mg....it knocked me off for 12 hours straight the first night... but the next day onward it gave me good sleep and I didnt feel much groggy in the day. I felt angry in the first 4-5 days... but that too has become better....
I must say my depressive bouts have lessened to minimal now... and anxiety too does not come around as long as I do not fuss over something.
 So in a way Mirtazapine and Escitalopram are working together for me.
 Is it true that Escitalopram/Mirtazapine can make u have apathy/emotional numbness...,.
 I am not sure if I have these side effects..... but I keep a constant watch on myself to see how I am reacting.... this has made life very difficult......
 Last evening, i suddenly started feeling very strange.... like I am staring blank..... not feeling good.... not feeling bad too per se... perhaps a bit down... disinterested.... detached... a bit unreal too.... this lasted for almost 2-3 hours.... till after dinner... for an hour or so I felt better.
I slept for like 10.5 hours.. which I 2.5 hours more than my usual sleep... I had for the second night dreams which were rather usual... but I could recollect them very well... I also felt some sort of vividness in my dreams... and I remember feeling very sad through the dreams...
I woke up feeling somewhat like previous night.... through the day till after lunch I intermittently felt detached.... dumbed down/ a little drugged perhaps.
 PLEASE HELP. 
 Is feeling this way a normal reaction.... what i felt last evening... through the day... CAN IT BE CALLED EMOTIONAL NUMBNESS/ APATHY - side effects reportedly felt with Anti-Dep use....
 I know I am on path of recovery ... but feelings like these make me feel horrible/desperate etc.
 My financial situation/location( small town in India) makes it very difficult for me to get second opinions or re-appointment with the govt. psychiatrist.
 Googling for answers brings up only confusing results as apparently everyone has contradicting opinion/experiences with the meds I am on.
PLEASE HELP