We were never in a relationship though at the time I really cared about him, him being arab he never took me seriously. I found out I was 7 weeks pregnant in April of this year so I back tracked of who could possibly be the dad. I never planned on getting pregnant but I was dating someone but we broke things off in February, soon after I started messing with the other guy (the arab) which we have before him. In March he  told me he was getting married (which I found out later he was lying) so I never planned on seeing him again after so till I found out I was pregnant. I thought about it for awhile to try and think who might be the dad with my lamp and everything started and ended with him. So I told him because I thought he work with me till we figured things out but he moved two hours away and I had to track him down through Facebook. I told him a lot of information, more than needed but basically why I believed he was more likely to be the dad. At first he was handling it fine but now he's flipping out on me. I got tired of his nonsense so I told his uncle which wasn't easy. I don't know if he believes me or not since I don't have the greatest reputation but I am not as bad as he's making it out to be. I told him I'm not a saint but I know my own body and he was the last person I was seeing after that. Now he's threatening to hurt me and claiming he's not the dad which I told him just to wait and we will see together, that if I'm wrong then it's my fault but he really is getting violent with his words and I know he has a problem with anger. I don't want to put a restraining order on him since me and my daughter's dad are going through custody and if they see that my life is in danger she  it might be endangering her which I don't want to put her in harm's way but ive been battling my ex husband for a year over this and I don't want him to get her to himself. I tried reasoning with my potentially unborn babies dad but he won't stop. I feel stuck? *tried explaining this to the best of my knowledge, sorry if there's any typos.