My question is for people who have bpd and are being treated for it. How did you realize you had it? Would it have been possible for someone to help you see this without alienating you? And, have you had successful relationships since diagnosis and treatment where you are able to communicate openly about the disorder and devise workaround, solutions, and tools for a healthy relationship?
 I am relatively certain that my boyfriend of four years has borderline personality disorder. Loving him has been a perfect mixture of heaven and hell. Just enough of each to keep me in a seemingly inescapable purgatory between clinging and running, both of which are not particularly healthy for either a person with codependent tendencies or a person who might have bpd, which seems to describe our combination. The first year was mostly about falling in love and me ignoring red flags of quick anger, dishonesty, question dodging and temper tantrums. The second was a year of full emotional abuse, domestic war, and me completely falling apart. The third was the year I tried to leave and solve the horrible confusion, fear, and pain of an emotional world that just was not making any sense to me. The fourth year I came back ready to take positive steps toward solving our problems, including giving fair consideration to his insistence that the problems were mine....despite his ex-wife having told me to not let him make me believe the problems between us were mine. I tried also to just have as much fun as possible, to be as positive, peaceful, and patient as I could be as well, trying hard to work on my own self esteem, inner peace, and emotional intelligence too. In the meantime I tried to educate myself on the possible explanations for the situation I found myself in. I read everything I could on emotional abuse, narcisscism and personality disorders. I went to two different therapists by myself in the third year and eventually two more couple's therapists with my boyfriend  in the fourth. I have tried for a long time to deny to myself what I really feel in my gut is the root of the problem—bpd and a terribly painful story somewhere in my boyfriend's past. This conclusion came from snippets of direct information let fly in strange moments, denied the rest of the time, from information I ended up gathering from his ex who dealt with similar problems, and from lots of reading, therapy and careful thought. I have tried hard to act with compassion and love him unconditionally. I have felt as if I am living with two different men, one I love very much and who treats me very sweetly and with a lot of affection and one so different who is trying to destroy me but thinks I am trying to destroy him and makes me feel like I am evil. The funhouse mirror metaphor I have read about is a very apt description. I try so hard to keep my feet on the ground but I feel so often like the world is upside down when I am with him. Nothing makes sense. 
 But he is super intelligent and very observant about others and I always feel like there is some way of getting through to him, to show him that his mistrusting me and feeling like I am always out to hurt him has no basis in reality and might be more about a twisted perspective than reality. I have tried so hard to invite him to trust me, to share with me, to let down his walls, avoiding saying directly what I think the problem is but trying to direct our search for a solution towards what I believe can help. Everything fails and all I do is cause a bigger problem between us and he ends up feeling like I think I am perfect and am refusing to take responsibility for anything. Everywhere I turn is a no-win situation and I finally feel powerless as well as downright physically and mentally unhealthy. 
 I really love my boyfriend, have lots of compassion and hope and would like to find someway to break through all of these defenses, to get past "the doorman" which is what I mentally call the angry guy who comes out to protect the guy I love when any situation looks like it could involve some kind of emotional difficulty or challenge. 
 I know people have gotten past this, but I cannot sensibly believe it is possible if the person with the problem cannot see it and continues to make the burden his partner's to carry. What can I do to confront him without making him feel confronted? Any suggestions from people who have experience with the disorder both personally and as a partner?
 Thank you in advance for any advice.