well, thanks for information , well isn't it obvious that a curiousity comes when odd things happens. Now body moves automatically when medicine decrease like a ghost body moves. This i say to doctor held  tells this is a illness body should not move. Well i am not intrested to go back in past experiences. Best is to see ahead , Speacially mind problems not body mind problems are so confusing and during treatment it has so many symptons so hard to know and it has totally odd odd reactions. That brings curiousity. Now body moves. This cannot be said to friends either, except here and doctor but if i say doesnt it sound like mental, Does body moves automatically without anybody touch. what a psyco subject to be asked with anyone? But too many things happens such as too much sleepy, lazy, over exicted, dizzyness, sometimes craziness, sometimes same thinking repeats so many times makes headaches.  But luckly whatever this happens all are under my control and i have extreme experiences. Now lets talk about sexual. I agree with doctor that drug could make sexual disorder. But from long time i am not enjoying the sex, little enjoy only. When i was in nepal i used to enjoy masturbation too much now that also less enjoy. This all probably during treatment this happens or waht, And next thing my heart doesnt feel enjoyment that it used to feel in the past, So sometime it makes fear willl it make a tasteless life, But i hope it may not happen. Sometime a questions come , pitutary glad produces all kind of harmone, sex, anger, fear, love and as well as gulcose too. i think gulcose is a harmone. it is mixed with sex harmone, anger harmone, love harmone, and during slowing down the gulcose harmone, it affects all harmone thus human gets mad, affect sex, anger. I have experience i used to enjoy masturbation too much. Now too less, According to that my gulcose level may be reduced,.But will i able to enjoy life again or not? It not only reduce gulcose it reduces other things as well such as high expectations, spontanous, . But life without sexual pleasure not so enjoying, pleasure happens but too less. It's been 3 years there is less pleasure . It proves gulcose level has been reduced. But now life without pleasure has no meaning too. what is this? According to this, this treatment should happen after sex life. But mental treatment confuses too much second after second. I feel here better because i can talk about sex here clearly. there in hospital i cant and that makes me tension. I truely say i did sex lots sometimes because of odd experiences sometimes by wish. but first time when i did safe sex i felt pain in heart before i was hospitalized. I was exicted at first but when i did sex too much pain happen in heart. then i surprise and repeated again and again, next sometimes enjoy and sometimes pain,. step by step heart didnot feel. but masturbation i used to enjoy alot, then i continued sex masturbation too many times , then i enjoyed masturbation only. i though i should not masturbate then did sex only , that time i enjoyed sex sometimes, but I felt blood is not reaching in heart then i masturbated, What is this sex or pain, no idea, Now how a mental people can make gf, Thus i didnot make any gfs though i wished too,. What is this what is going on sydney  i dont understand anything, All odd odd happens, . But still i am paying for medicne now, amazing, I think i was in critical condition i remember that when i was at kogarah somebody from far drawing the closed nerve of my brain. then lightening then hospital and in hospital blood pumping happened in brain and when something used to pump the blood or circulate blood in nerves that time body moved at hospital , in hospital body used to move so dangerously, during body move hand legs could be broken as well, from this experience i can understand that i was taken to hospital because of brain cause, Hosptial they need to go whose nerves are closed by big big brain tumours,, if not hanging on is good just becaue of brain reason i was hospitalized, or underpressure dragged, I remember first breain tumours were poped up by amaking me psyco, then at once all tumour were cut from far then somebody was drawing closed brain nerves, big big tumour has closed brain nerves, If that increase human could forget, all pain i m sufffering becauise of just brain reason not a body reason, just because of brain reason ppl suffers. Ifnot ts is nonsense and unnecessary if theat re was no brain this is nonsense. tumour could close brain nerves, that needs to be opened, I was diabities baby, its from chiodyood collection probably. so now enjoy less gulcose is less, sex means just nothing, ifnott i would have gf surely, its because mind so many symptons still many, body movement past and present is different, in past  body used to move while blood pumping in brain , now body moves by cpu, i mean pitutary glad reason only. Now blood doesnt circulate from one place to another,. in past something which u move blood in my nerves and movement used to happen, now no circulation just in pitutary gland reason body moves, next while i am hungry i need food and if i dont eat till long sometimes electricity i feel in brain., That happened many times, during gastric time, what is this , i mean so many thing happens,. Anxity surely comes, Other things are unnecessary just sexual is main issure for me, Now body moves because of pitutary glad means its work going on. BUt i dont care other this makes angry, I like to make gf but because of mental reason i dont make,. when i will get well so time consuming,