Really I have a very good life and am unbelievably grateful for everything I have (family, friends, so on) but sometimes (usually at night when I'm alone) I start to cry and then I can't stop. One night, I was at a party and got really drunk and then when it was over I went to my friends house with her because I was sleeping over at hers and then I started crying and crying and crying and she tried to comfort me and hug me. Partly I pushed her away and partly I hugged her back. I was also saying a lot of bad things about myself and basically putting myself down. My friends foot was hurt and her mother (we're kinda close) asked me to make sure that my friend doesn't stand so much. I did take care of her a little bit but not enough. So while crying I said things like "I'm a horrible friend, I'm so sorry" and then just generally "I'm a ****** person, everything I do is worthless" and so on (I'm sure you get the idea). I layed down on the sidewalk and just continued crying. My friend asked me what was wrong and then I said it hurts and pointed at my body. She asked me again later and I said the same thing again and again. It took me a long time to stop and even though I don't remember a lot of that night (my friend told me after I asked) I do remember the feeling of this pure physical and mental hurt all over my body as if it extended in every single cell of my body. I'm scared of this feeling because a little bit is inside me all the time. Just sometimes its like its released and then I can't put it back. Even though I hate it when its happening, sometimes during the day I want to let it out. I've had a long journey of mental health starting then I was about 10/11 (I'm 16 now) but mainly it's all about self-worth. I feel like I've hated myself all this time and when I was in 7th grade I wanted to kill myself. I stood at traffic lights and thought about running onto the street. I did confide in certain people in my life but I felt like I was troubling them and it did get better eventually and so I stopped talking about it and my family stopped talking about it. I called it my "depressed phase". After I was obssessed about losing weight. I started a "diet" were I basically replaced as much food as I could with tea. I was at a birthday party and started running laps after eating chips. I feel like this is all very typical teenage whatever but I don't know what to do. I could say more but honestly, I'm sure everyone knows the kind of things I'm talking about. (I also have brutal nightmares occacionally- mass shootings of my friends etc.) I just don't know what to do and I want it to end. I don't deserve to feel bad because there is nothing horrible enough happening to me for me to feel this way. Please just tell me what you think, thank you.