Hello. I'm 18 and I'm about to leave for college. The problem is myself. I hate myself. Everything about me. How I look, how I act, what I say. Everything thing I do is wrong. I used to be ok but at some point I started to take in what my mom would say to me. It started out with the way I looked. She would tell me I looked like an old woman because of my long hair, and that no boy would like me with baggy clothes and that I looked like a hunch back (I don't have good posture). And every single time I would walk she would pinch me and tell me walk straight that I looked weird (I'm pigeon toed). In middle school this didn't bother me because I didn't care about what I looked like but I became more conscience of it in highschool. I tried to dress better but I didn't like makeup until she told me I looked sickly with no make up and wouldn't let me leave the house if I didn't wear it. So I avoided fights by doing that. Then there was my weight. I went through puberty when I started highshool and I started gaining a little weight (which is normal because I had hips and boobs to fill in) but my mom hated it. She was constantly calling me fat and not allowing me to eat at dinner. One time we went shopping and she refused to buy any pair of pants that wasn't a 00 slim. Lucky after so many fights I convinced her to let me wear 0 pants so that's ok now. But I'm constantly worried about my fat and weight now. I'm at a healthy 120 lb for being 5'6" but I don't wear tight clothes because I'm afraid of my stomach. I remember the first time I realized I had rolls when I sat down. It was in my math class. I was so afraid of what she would say that to this day if I'm shirtless and around her I'll suck in my gut when I sit. When I stand I have abs but when I sit the skin folds and I'm ashamed. Then there was everything else. She didn't like my friends so I could never hand out with them, I tried making new ones and I did but it was hard. I'm always afraid that she won't like them. I'm a straight A student, top 30% of my class and i got half tuition in scholarship to the shook I'm going to but a of highshool shed constantly tell me how dumb I was for getting a occasional bad test grade. I get Elle's at for not helping around the house, but I do help I make her meals and clean. But sometimes I don't know how to do something and she'll yell at me for not knowing. I don't know what to do. Now everything I do seems wrong. I can't seem to understand failure. I created my own film and I make me own art but when something goes wrong it's as if she's yelling at me and my brain does what she always does. Brings up every single thing I've done wrong. And it makes me hate myself. What happened to make me write this post is that I went to hang out with my friend who is a lesbian and her girlfriend and they came late and I asked if I could go to a movie with them and she called all angrily to tell me that I'm incapable of anything and that I could not read situations and that I had to go home or I would be sent to community college. I don't know what to do. Is everything I do wrong? Is that really true? I'm afraid to say it's not because she always says that's my stupid teenager side fighting with her. But I don't understand. I can't even cry without her saying I'm just faking it. She's not just like this with me. She does it with my little brother too. But my brother is more confident and outgoing so he fights her back and does what he wants. I don't know what to do. After she called me I waited in the car for a while. I think I want to kill myself. I usually write all of this down in my journal but I don't have it. If everything I do is really wrong then what's the point of living a life that I can't do anything right in?