Well  I don't have many problems now, then I did, I guess I just need to talk to someone. I'm not really depressed, I'm just a bit sad about how I've been treated. You see a year ago me and my mother didn't get along. My parents live in the same city but they are divorce (since 8). So I just lived with my mom. We never got along, she would always yell at me for the littlest stuff, well things got majorly bad 2 years ago. She started drinking alchohol, taking drugs, and she was doing website porn. She would yell at me for hours, calling me worthless, telling me something was wrong with me, cussing at me, and I can go on and on, but she just said hateful things. I yelled back at her first, just asking why she yelled, why she was doing the things she did to me. Then all I did was cry in my closet with the door locked, she would open it sometimes with a butter knife, and I could never escape the screams. They went on forever, till late at night. It seemed like I cried for a long time. other things happened in between, her cruddy boyfriends that liked to scare me, her getting beat up one night, her trying to kill herself in front of me. She never physically abused me, she tried a couple of times but I got away. I didn't know what to do, I was scared to live with my dad cause we were having some troubles, I haden't visited in over a year. Plus I didn't like my step-mom and she had 4 kids. But finally I forced myself over there. My mom screamed and yelled for a long time and blamed everything on me, she hated me for leaving. She moved away and lived with my grandma, and started to get better, going to meetings and everything. Then grandma died, and she stopped going to meetings. She blames me again, telling me I'm going to be a screw up that’s going to be begging her for help one day. She doesn't want to talk to me anymore. that's why I'm writing this, cause she never wants to talk to me again and because I just need to get this out. I'm not entirely happy, step-kids treat me horrible, everyone takes advantage of me here, when dinners over, they make me do the dishes, when it use to be everyone helps. My dad treats me good, but no one understands how hurt I am. Plus I have no friends, so I feel so alone sometimes. I just wish I had someone to talk to and a friend. A lot of other stuff happened also, but it would take to long to write everything. I don't know if I should forgive my mom now. I always did, after I left, but now? I don't want to have to suffer anymore than I should.  Now I cant trust anyone, I can’t even look ppl in the eyes. I don’t smile as much as I use 2, I mean I have friends, but they never invite me anywhere, I’m not there best friend, and I don’t get invited to their parties. I’m just sad, because nothings every been good for me, and I don’t know if they ever will be. I miss my old mother, but she’s gone. I’m just patiently waiting till I turn 19 and can go to college and start my life over. You don’t have to reply, I just need to let this out. 
  I'm sorry that it's long, and btw I'm also 17. this is not much of a guestion, I guess I just needed to let it all out and stuff, I'm not able to say this stuff to anyone else.