Hi i am a 22 years old male. I was diagnosed with GAD and i have OCD  (magical thinking, intrusive toughts ). My main anxieties were about always health, particularly mental health, since i was a loner, i always feared that i could be schizophrenic. But lately  i've been having  paranoid thoughts (about housemates, people working at my dormitory). I was a victim of identity theft but this happened 2 years ago and it wasn't a big thing  (someone opened a  phone contract in my name) after i researched about identity theft on the internet i became obsessed about this subject and i read a lot about how to avoid it - not to be a victim of it again. After a while, perhaps under influence of all the fear mongering on the internet i started to suspect my cleaner - not with total conviction - , maybe she could copy my passport etc. and sell it or use it and the moment i thought about this i feared that same thing (identity theft) will happen again and i will go to jail or have financial troubles etc., i don't think the cleaners would do this but i ask to my self  "What İf?..." these thoughts are haunting me for months and also make me suspect that i have Paranoid personality disorder or maybe Paranoid Schizophrenia. I can't help these paranoid thoughts, they pop up on my mind and sometimes even change my behaviour i am not believing them with full conviction but i started to lock my passport in my suitcase, shred papers that have important data on them, sometime i find myself even observing the cleaners, and i feel ashamed and feel like i've gone mad, i say, "Why do i do this it is so unlikely for this to happen?". As if this is not enough to make me think i've gone mad once a friend asked to use my wi-fi and and i gave him my password  then i became worried,  so again i read stuff about this on the net and again i became paranoid i started to ask myself, what if he downloads something illegal,i get into trouble, go to jail etc.i tried to tell myself this is not likely, he doesn't look like a bad guy and i started to fear that i've gone even madder lost my sence of reality after couple days of these thoughts i shut down my wifi and told him something is wrong with my connection. I actually did this, i feel so ashamed, what would he think if i were to told him that i suspected him and deliberately shut down the wi-fi. 
Lately i started to take some steps against this paranoia, stopped locking my door, leave my passport in my laptop bag rather than locked in my suitcase.But i am worried about Paranoid Personality Disorder and what if i lost my sence of reality totally.I have mistrust of others to some extent but i am not aggressive, can take criticism. I don't read insults from what others say. I just feel helpless, maybe needy, socially underdeveloped.
 Please tell me what is wrong with me. 
 Bert
PS: Apologies for my grammatical mistakes, English is not my first language