I really need someone to talk to. I cant talk to my family, as most of my problems are from them. First my husband was horseplay as they call it at work and got hurt but instead of telling me the truth he lied to me about it for 2 weeks. He was seriously hurt too. And i took care of him day and night. I just cant seem to forgive him for lying to my face over and over. When his boss found out the truth that is when he finally came clean to me too. His buddy at his job that was driving the hi-lo was the one that started the lie!  I just feel hurt that he couldnt tell me (his wife) the truth from day 1.
I dont work there, i dont talk to no one there. Why did he have to lie? When i ask him he just says i didnt want to get you upset! Oh my god, what does he think i am now, its been 2 years and i cant get over the lie. We had such a great marriage before that and told each other everything, well at least i told him, now i wonder what else he has lied about. 
He says he is sorry for losing my trust but i just dont believe him. What can i do to get past this. 
One reason that this really gets to me is i have family that lie about everything and am trying to deal with their crap too!
I feel like i have no one to trust, no one to talk to. Then there is my mother omg where do i start! She comes to my house (by the way she lives in the house next to me) and if i am outside she answers my phone and says she is me and carries on conversations with my friends and with my credit card companies!!! when i confronted her, she starts to act like she is gonna cry and then says she didnt do anything wrong. She thinks she can run my life.Then the other day my friend comes over and her and i were laughing and talking and didnt hear no one at the door, all of sudden my mother walks in my house and starts yelling at me "what the hell are you's doing in here" I said all we are doing is chatting. She then goes on to say how she was banging on the door. I said with us talking , tv on and air conditioner running i cant hear anyone at the side door. She rolled her eyes , thru my mail at me and walked out. Omg i was so embarrassed and my friend didnt know what to think. Then she calls me on the phone and yells at me " there is a truck in your driveway , get off your A-- and get out there. Omggg she yelled so loud my friend just shook her head. Then not 5 minutes later, beating on the door again. Omg i thought i go to the door and is my mother once again. I said what now? She yells get your father a glass of ice water! I said why is your water not working? She said yeah it works but i am not going all the way in the house to get him one, when you can. I about died of embarrassment. I do everything for my parents and get treated so badly. I just cant take it no more. She has been this rude and mean to me my whole life.  This has gone on long enough, i feel between my husband's lie and her running my life and the rest of the family being crazy and lying, i am gonna go insane. I dont know what to do anymore. I used to so happy, outgoing but now i am depressed and dont trust no one. What can i do to get past all of this. Is it me or what? I just feel i have no life, my husband works 12 hours a day, i dont work cause i am not well. I do all i can for my parents to help them. I cant even leave the house without my mother calling my cell phone asking where i am going and what i am doing. If i dont answer my home phone she leaves me nasty messages and then says call me. She is always so mean to me. If i am in the bathroom and cant get to the phone, she will either keep calling over and over or leave nasty messages and she lives right next me. I am 45 years old, not some baby and i am soooo sick of being treated like i am stupid and cant take care of myself. I am just about ready to pull all my hair out, this is driving me crazy , i really need some advice. I have told my mother to stop this , but she is set in her ways and i believe will always be so nasty and mean to me. 
i just cant take much more. please help, thanks for letting me get this off my chest. I really need someone to talk to