I recently posted a question regarding my ex boyfriend and me and of course im more confused than before. My boyfriend of over year a recently broke up with saying we were arguing to much .He was in the Army and just got back from over seas. he lived with me for a while and everything was great then I moved to a small town to be with him and gave up my apt and good job. I had a hard time finding a job and  had no friends there. I eventually found 2 jobs and was barely getting by and not to mention the town was so small it didnt even have a grocery store so we really didnt do anything.  I also found out that he was on an adult website and had been for a while even when he lived with me. He was chatting with girls and having them send him pictures. He blamed me of course but i forgave him. I never trusted him after that either and still dont. While i lived with him in the small town he verbally and emotionally abused me he blamed a lot of it on his PTSD . sometimes he would be a great guy and then next he would be really mean and angry with me and i sometimes i never knew why. Before i moved i spoke with his ex wife and found out he did the same to her but much worse he physically abused her and cheated multiple times on her and that is just the begining.  So he lied to me too . When i was moving he did help me out a lot helped pay for things and drove the truck as i moved 2 hours away and helped me move my stuff into a storage unit. also the whole time he was telling how he still loved me and this was really hard for him. I did catch him shedding a few tears while i was packing. His parents and best friend of years no longer speak to him as they are fed up . the day i moved out he text me and the next night as well we started texting each other he even text me on xmas and when i was offered a job where he was he told me to take it. Recently i drove back to pick up a few things i left and see our dogs . he was really excited for me to come and i ended staying there a few days and he kept telling to find a job there and that he needed a roomate. We got along great it was the old him he was so sweet and caring , not to mention loving.. right before i left he told me there were jobs there. but here is the kicker he applied for jobs overseas and just paid for a back round check for the jobs and sounds like he plans to take them and i have on offer to move to another state and do something ive dreamed of for years.i even told him to come with.I know he still loves me and wants me back but for some reason cant tell me...my friends and family tell me that it will just go back to the same and the relationship wasnt healthy as i at one point was so deppressed considered sucide. I know even tho he wont admit it what he did was very wrong and i should move on but i dont know why i love him so much and honestly i feel a little sorry for him and cant stand to see him in pain. Im not ugly and i have no bagage so i dont have a problem meeting other people i just for some reason love him. Im confused i dont know if i should just move on and start fresh or maybye he has changed..???