I'm 18. I'm the middle child. Older brother is 22 younger sister is 12.
Brother- Doesn't have a job, money, license, car, anything.
Sister- Only in middle school.
Mother- I work with her in the office so were together a lot.
Father- Left us when I was 7, with a younger girl who wanted him for some reason. They have a baby now. My baby half-sister. :)
My dad is a alcoholic and a grade A douche bag. He had me move in with him for high school so he didn't have to pay child support. Made my life hell for the constant verbal abuse. Calling me things, and just making me feel like ****. I moved in with my mom my high school year. Graduated, got a job. Getting my license now and my car. Trying to save money but I can't. Because of douche bag. 
 He can legally stop paying child support once I turned 18. He did for me and my brother each. But its still $300 for my sister, monthly. He makes such a huge deal about it. How he's broke, and he can't blah blah blah, all ********. He gets a monthly check from the military, and he goes to Italy and all these other places? Yeah okay. Anyways. 
 Here's where I come in. My mom does not have enough money to pay the bills, rent, and groceries, and money for us to actually just use. One of her checks covers almost all the rent. in two weeks she can pay the rest, and have the rest for bills. We need food. She started asking me for money, and slowly paying me back. And now she's asking for me to help with rent. Which is fine, it really is. But, this is my money to get out of here. I only have 800$ a check and she takes 80% of it. She's my mom and I love her, I'd give it all if I didn't have my own goals. My dad refuses to pay more then what he needs too, which I wouldn't care about if he eve bothered to talk to us or pay for any of us, but he doesn't. Am I over reacting? I'm just so stressed lately that all my money is going into this family when my dad doesn't give a second thought about us.
I hate the thought of asking my mom for the money back, because she's paid for me my whole life, but she owes me over 2,500$ now.. :| I just don't know how to feel right now.