Hello, i just noticed that my daughter "cut" herself several times.  she would not own up to it until i checked her razor, checked her pj"s (her sleeve was soaking wet the previous nite and when i checked there were brown stains), then confronted her and told her that i knew it wasnt an accident, i knew what she had done i had just needed her to tell me.  She is 13, last August we moved to a completely French province, where she has never even heard the language........she was use to being the top.....not exaggerating.......the one or two spot in the entire grade to be a middle of the road student.  She cut the day after she attended teh award ceremonies at school, where she would normally get nearly every award...of course she did not get any.  The teachers are not particularly warm and only teach, dont support.   She also lost her best friends in the world, her brothers, to a Unviersity 12 hours away and need I say, she had to leave all of her friends that she has had since K.  Oour relationship has been strained, I cant do or say anything right but I put that up to age/hormones.  She adores my husband.  She is generally happy.  I have been watching her for the past two months because she came to me to say that she thought she was Depressed becasue she did an online test.  We talked about it then she said she actually wasnt sad, she just went to this psychological website to take all the tests (her oldest brother is studying to be a clinical psychologist/second year and she has gotten the bug/interest from him), so I took it at face value and decided to just watch her closely.  She generally is in a good mood, especially since Christmas where the language has become much easier and now that the boys are home for the summer.  I asked why she did the cutting, and she said she didnt mean anything by it that she just wanted to see what it was like.   One cut was quite a large gouge.  Two of her friends have gone EMO from her past school and they speak to each other daily almost.  When I first confronted her she said dont be rediculous, I'm not EMO.   She does have very sweet friends here, her friends are the smartest so it is an additional reminder every day that she isnt there yet.  I just dont know what to do, what to beleive, if I am over reacting.  The only English therapist is nearly two hours away and when i asked her if she would like to go speak to someone, she absolutely refused........refused.  that normally doesnt stop me, but it isnt a quick decision.  She was quite active physically in our old home, we moved to a small town where no real facilities are available, so she has gained weight also and has gotten bad eating habits.  I am determined to get her moving again and eating well again, I hope this adds to her feeling better.....I would like to hear from anyone who has experienced something similar and has any advice for me/her.  We love her dearly, she has a huge heart, great sense of humor, i think she just lost herself a bit and I would love to be able to help her get to know herself again and be happy. 
Thank you in advance. 
I would love to get feedback at ***@**** .... thank you