Posted on the depression forum earlier this year about how i was suffering from depression and other stuff that was playing on my mind about my dad and how he use to be violent with my mum, me and my braother and sister. I have since took the advice and told my councellor about thhese things only last week. I have been feeling much better and was depression free for a good few months upuntil the last few weeks. I'm in year 10 and have had 5 GCSE's, i never cope well with exams and so the weekend before i got really low and self-harmed again. I got through my maths one but bottled out of my history one and on the following tuesday i self-harmed again. It was really bad and the bottom of my leg was covered in cuts. I told my mentor who got me an emergency appointment with my councellor. When i saw my councellor i decided to tell her about the nightmares and how my dad use to be violent and that i was having flashes of it. She had to tell social service but since my mum and dad have split and he doesn't live with us they're not going to interfere. I was happy about that, but i am still feeling low and am reluctant to tell anyone what i'm feeling. Everythings playing up on my mind again, about my mum and dads split and that and stuff that has happened. I dont want to be depressed again. I feel really insecure all the time, whereas before when i was ill with depression it was different. I have this fear of being abandoned by everybody and have never felt so paranoid and insecure before. I'm barely going to school and am not that close with my best friend anymore. I just know that people are out to hurt me and leave me. I have never felt so worthless. I hate my body. I want to be beautiful, i can't stand my self, but at the same time ii just want to be loved. I don't think that i'm normal and i don't think that this is just depression this time? I get confused between what is real and what isn't and see people hurting me in my head when they don't and i have a right temper, just like the other night, my mum frowned at something and i instantly thought she was judging something about me and flew off on one. Is this depression again or something else? My moods drastically change from one to the other? I find it hard to find a stale relationship with anyone, one mi uite they're perfect and the next i don't want to be around them. Just like one minute i like who i am and the way i look and i know what i am good at and what i am rubbish at and the next im ugly and i can't stand myself and what im good at and rubbish at has changed. I also have long and bad episodes of just constantly feeling emptyness :(  Is this normal?