Hi, 
 I have a problem, I can't stop talking to myself. It's got to the point where I'm having full blown conversations with myself. I'm like it 24/7 and find it difficult to stop the constant train of thoughts. I think the fact I'm obsessed with the way I look doesn't help matters . It's like I can't process normal thoughts like every other human being, instead I have to say it aloud in my head which leads me to start having a conversation in my mind to myself to the relater matter or thought. I feel like I'm losing my mind as I can barely concentrate on anything and the worst part of it is I'm in my final year of my degree. The problem started perhaps two years ago or before I even started university but wasn't bad to point I could not concentrate. However in the last year, it's become increasingly worse to the point now, where I'm constantly talking to myself in my head which leads to an inherrant feeling of anxiety and nervouness in which all my confidence has evaporated. To put it simply, I'm in a complete state as a result and don't know what to do or who to turn too. I have pondered over the idea I may be suffering from schizophrenia or depression, however I do not hear voices or suffer from hallucinations and do not consider myself paranoid in anyway. The voice is my own voice and acts almost as a constant narration which I'm aware of and know I'm doing.  
 When I'm put under pressure or put on the spot, I'm able to think clearly as im forced to not talk to myself and concentrate. For example, recently, I had to give a presentation as part of my degree and once it came to the moment of deliverance the pressure caused me to block my inner thoughts. After the presentation I felt great and my mind was clear, however a couple of hours after it just went straight back to how it was. My work has suffered hugely as a result and I have a final year exam coming up in two months. I plan to see a doctor after I'm finished but wondered if there was any drugs anybody could reccommend to hault the thoughts and help me concentrate? I find myself able to concentrate more and feel more happy after filter coffee or coca cola as the buzz gives me a temporary lift. (starbucks!). 
  P.S sorry for the long message - Any help would be much appreciated. 
 Daniel