I am 15 years old. My parents divorced when I was around 9, my father marrying my mother's best friend, leaving me very confused as to who's side I should be on. I do not have a history of abuse. However, for the past few years my father has negelected me, treating me with disrespect and constantly giving me the cold shoulder. I have very little idea of who I am to the point where I become anxious and depressed. I have a lack of identity. I experience difficulty planning my future, due to my constant changing values, personality, goals, and sense of self identitiy. I experience bouts of anger, depression, or anxiety that last from several minutes to hours, daily. My attitudes towards my friends and family suddenly shift from great admiration to intense hatefulness, which sometimes can be caused by a little thing such as the other person saying something that doesn't fit my current constantly changing view on a topic. I experience extreme black and white thinking, something either is or isn't, everything must be categorized this way or it will not make sense. My anger is very inappropriate at times and is uncalled for, however my anger never becomes physically violent, I only get extremely irritable and yell hateful words. I am deliberately manipulative in a way that turns the attention of the person towards me, but not in a sexual way. I am deliberately difficult just to be different that others. I make up huge lies to make myself look better. I used to think I had special psychic powers. I am afraid of touching other people. I am afraid of being sincere and emotional infront of others. Since I was 13, I've had a fear of being pregnant. These episodes of anxiety last about 5-7 months, causing extreme depression, anger, anxiety. This fear may be rational if I've had sex in the past, however I have not. There is no possible way that I could be pregnant, and I know that, however I cannot believe it, even if the 3rd pregnancy test turned out to be negative. I fear being the "Virgin Mary." It gets to the point where I relate everything to this irrational fear, and I begin thinking that the dog can sense it, causing him to act the way he is currently acting. Sometimes, I burst into tears for no reason. Only for a few minutes, but then i stop, and it will be impossible for any more tears to come out as if my eyes have gone completely dry. Others have noticed my extreme obsessions with certain things that last a few months. These obsessions include people with red hair (I will stop at nothing to look like a natural redhead), certain people, and certain drugs. I change my room around every week because I become extremely uncomfortable with the arrangement it is in. When one of my friends decides to hang out with someone else, I am left feeling empty, lonely, abandoned, and angry at him or her. Before I do something I will run it by someone else to get their approval so that I am not going to feel insulted later. I act perfectly fine in school, but I have noticed this is a barrier to seem normal. As soon as I get home, I begin to feel my emotional cycles of anger, anxiety, and depression. I have a history of extreme drug use. For about 1 year I smoked marijuana daily. For a few months I got drunk daily, and then began to become obsessed with ecstasy. I did ecstasy for 5 months and then I stopped because the cost ran up to 150 dollars every two weeks. I now only smoke marijuana daily and sometimes take prozac given to me by a friend, but only the recommended dose. My parents do not know my pattern of thinking, I am too afraid to tell them, or that they will shrug it off just like every other problem I have ever had. I do not like to talk to people about this, because they may think I am stupid, or worse that I am over-reacting. I have done every possible online test for borderline personality disorder, and I am almost convinced that that is what it could be. 
 I was just wondering if someone could relate all of these things that I have described to some sort of a mental disorder, because I am almost certain that all this cannot be normal. I am emotionally drained, and I would appreciate the help.