Hi i had a really bad reaction to effexor 75mg. I took one pill and couldnt sleep that night until 5am. I wake up 5hrs later and the first thing i noticed was severe nasal congestion. I stand up and my heart starts racing and i get an extreme panic attack. I had a very dry mouth, feeling very short of breath, extreme dizzyness, numb all over my face and body, my lower neck hurt and felt very tight. It was so bad i went to the er. At the er they injected a steroid and some medicine to calm me down. I feel a little better but i still had alot of trouble breathing and eventually went home and thought i was feeling better, i stopped the medicine. The next morning i wake up in two hours after falling asleep and as soon as i stood up the whole episode repeated but i took two pills of xanex and calmed down. My chest still felt very tight and it was very hard ro breath. The breathing trouble persisted the whole day. The night after, i couldnt sleep due to the very dry mouth, very congested, neck felt very tight and feel very hard to breath(like im breathing through a tiny straw). This is extremely painful and uncomfortable feeling. I go to urgent care the next day and was getting dizzy nonstop dispite taking xanex before i went. Urgent care told me i sgould go to er again for the chest tightness but i didnt because everytime i go to er they do nothing for me so i went home. Its been 6 days now and these symptoms come and go, mainly the breathing trouble. These symptoms are simular if i smoke weed or even around someone smoking weed. But with weed, they more mild and go away within 24 hours. My doctor thinks i had an allergic reaction but i dont think thats the case. She gave me another antidepressant, and im very scared to take it. I have mild depression but its manageable. Im mainly suffering from nasal congestion that has persisted for 2 years, and allergy shots, 2 surgeries, and alot of differant steroid sprays hasnt helped me at all. I became a little depressed because of this reason and thats why i took this medicine. Could this be a bad reacrion to the medicine due to another underlying cause? Do these sound like classical side effects? Im considering visiting a nuerologist but idk. What would you do if you where in my place? I also sleep really long hours and have a really hard time waking up, and im always feeling weak.