Hi im 14 and ive been through quite some ****** stuff. For the last past couple of years my life has been getting harder and harder, ive come so close to ending my life so many times. I started cutting myself in grade 6 just small little cuts with scissors, but then in grade 7 it started getting really bad i started using razors and cutting deep and lots more, i also started a bad smoking and stealing habit. And now im finishing grade 8 and its really really bad i have cut soo deep and so much that you could barely even see my arm. I also started planning and writting suicide notes to family and friends. :$ i also have come extremely close to killing my self, but again and again i debated and talked myself out of it. I also steal pills, it got so bad at one point i stole huge bottle of pills from a family memeber. And throughout all of that there has been soo much fighting between me and my mom and stepdad and exspecially my friends or used to be friends/boyfriends, ive been called every name under the sun worst of a bisexual **** up. Ive been sexually abused from the age 10 or 11 to age 13 just recently it has stopped. And the worst part is i know i have a severe problem i do understand but i feel like i dont want to get help, im so indenial and i know i can feel it, all of this hate in me and i dont know why but i lash out on everybody. One time in summer last year my mom got soo mad she pushed me into the house and down the stairs and then dragged me to my bedroom, also Just recently my mom has told me she does not want me while i was at school she packed my stuff and then picked me up at school and drove me to my dads and dropped me off, i didnt even no. I was soo hurt i yelled and told her that if she left me here to consider me gone from the rest of her life, because i wasnt coming back and i would hate her for the rest of my life. At that moment i seen the pills and i came 2 steps closer to killing myself i felt like i was dangling off a cliff, a verdge between dying and staying. I dont ever want to get up from bed, but also i cant ever fall asleep ,i wanna die so bad :$ and i know if i dont do something soon i will end up dead. I really dont know what to do anymore somebody please help me! My mom doesnt think i have a problem she avoids stuff like this and doesnt wanna believe i have a problem. also i dont want to live with my mom bcuz i hate living with her and all we do is fight and its too stressful and i dont want to live with my dad bcuz all he ever does is drink and fight. I dont no were to go or to do?