Hello, I need some help. My fiance and me have been fighting for a while and I finally had enough and so did she that we went to get help. She got comitted to a center for 3 days where they released her. She also has high anxiety and freaks out quite often. I have patience, but my temper occasionally flys off, which doesn't help matters. We were fine yesterday, but today we had problems. She freaked out because I had to find a ride to her appointment and I have to work and have a can't miss meeting later, so if I do then I'm out of work the whole day, which would be day 3. So after the fact we got the ride settled and went to a friends. We just got in and settled when she remembers that she needs to go to the library. I had just gotten settled over there and she asks if everyone wants to go, which I know they don't. I got up mad like and said to my friend "nevermind friend(no names) I gotta go". She says nevermind and gets all depressed and starts to go into one of her anxiety depression modes. I told her it's fine and that I'm trying to change and apologize about getting mad, but it's to late. She's mad and won't go to the library now. I get up and say if she's not going to go then I will and walked out to the car. She comes out and say's I can't deal with this and goes to walk off. I then say, "I see whos trying". Which of course doesn't help, and I know I'm wrong, but I got angry. She gets in the car and yells," I just put myself through hell for us and don't say I'm not trying". I apologize again and try to solve it. And we come to the library which is where I'm writing this.  She's calmed down now a little, but I need help to further deal with these situations. Also her daughter's grandma also is a big cause and she was fine yesterday till we went over there. Which I knew was a bad idea, and it proved right, cause when she came out she was pissed caused someone had told her daughters grandma something not true about me, but my finace defended me, but she also came out yelling at me because she started having an episode. I have pretty much made my point to her about the grandmother of her daughter, but when the ride thing came up earlier she thought about asking her, which I know would cause more problems or the grandmother would try to use her or mess with her mind again, even after my proof yesterday that she was a part of the problem. I really need some help on dealing with these issues. Can someone please help me? Please.