I sure hope this can help b/c I'm at my witts end. I met a guy a year and a half ago about 2 months after his second divorce. We were on again off again for a year before we stopped dating. He had just started seeing a counselor when I met him. He told me about month after we met that the reason the second marriage ended was his infidelity. He broke things off with me for another girl after a few months. I really don't think he was sleeping around on me at that time. Shortly after he broke things off, he started spinning out of control and sleeping with various women. One of which could have hindered his career severely. He came back around. Told me he had changed, etc. I gave him another chance. He had to call it off again b/c he thought he had one of these other girls pregnant. He came back around a 3rd time when he discovered he was not the father. Stupid me gave him another chance. Once again he promised he was better, would not sleep around on me, etc. His lies caught up with him this time. I orginally told him that I never wanted to see or speak to him again. He cried. I forgave him. He was about to go on a deployment. He told me that he needed time to himself, etc.
 He asked me to move in with him in due to financial reasons. I did so. Instead of coming home and working on us. . . he came home to tell me that he was in a relationship with one of the girls he cheated on me the last time with. To top it all off they have a long distance relationship and she is a therapist. I am very bitter for the way I have been done. I still have feelings for this guy. I don't want to anymore. I just want to get over him and be able to be a great friend to him. He has been unfaithful to his current girl friend with me. He has also been extremely jealous when I have went on dates with other guys and have tried to move on with my life. 
 He used to be very respectful to me and seemed to be a very caring person. He half the time tells me now that I'm not even a friend, tries to blame me for his relationship problems (even though I'm certain that he has cheated on this therapist with multiple other girls). I have to live with him. He is making me feel like complete crap about myself. What can I do? I also hate being so bitter and angry towards him. Everytime we take a step forward he does something totally inconsiderate that causes us to take 2 steps back.