All my life I've had this niggling feeling my mom didn't like me and really just didn't care about the achievements in my life. Not only did she not care she didn't and doesn't respect them or me. Recently I graduated with a Creative Writing Degree and the opportunity to submit an unsolicited manuscript came up. I sat down and told my parents my hours might be a little wacky right now as I work on this goal to get my manuscript in on time. The first words out of my father's mouth were supportive and understanding. He knew how much this opportunity meant to me. My mom? Well she became unbelievably angry and began an argument about all of the things I needed to start doing for her immediately. That day, that very moment instead of my writing. We got into an argument in which she told some inaccuracies and I clarified those for her. Then she finally stood up with her hands on the table and said what I had secretly believed all these years "I DON'T CARE!" I responded with "I CARE" She huffed and puffed and ran into her bedroom putting on the water works.
 Today, the next day, I was in the kitchen when she was and she was acting like "I'm the innocent party I have nothing to be sorry for, but you do." 
 It's one thing to have a suspicion it's another thing to know it for a fact. I couldn't be more disappointed in her. She was spoiled when she was growing up and little miss popular.  It's not in my imagination about how she has treated me. One time her father told her she wasn't so old he couldn't still spank her. He said that to her because of the way she was treating me.
 Truth is, I do not like my mother. She's kinder to strangers than she is her own family. She doesn't treat my father well. She insults me every time I turn around, even in front of guests. I was asked to move in with them. Initially I didn't want to because i remembered what my childhood had been like. The first couple of weeks were fine, then we were back to the old ways. I'm 53 and I'm on disability and I need to get the hell out of here, but if I leave my dad is stuck alone with her.
 What do I do?