Hi I need some help please, my girlfriend/partner of a year suffers with depression. To say the last year has been strange and mainly volatile is an understatement. I'm 37 and she's 38.we work together.for the last year we have constantly argued and haven't spoken for days on end. I've never Bern in this type of relationship before or never witnessed anything like it. When we are in work I'm given the cold shoulder to the extent I'm invisible at times, when I text to see if all is ok I get abused and blamed for interfering, I can't win. She acts all flirty with her male colleagues which I have to witness on a daily basis, as I'm not allowed to inform anyone in work of our relationship, I feel like a dirty little secret , when I question or challenge her over things she accuses me of being jealous and turns things on me blaming me for being jealous, I have to admit to some extent I am a little but can control it. I see her every day flirting and giggling on with male colleagues and then when she can be bothered to text me I get the depressed person,with all doom and gloom. Well February I couldn't take anymore and decided to end our sham of a relationshipbut ffound myself missing her. I gave to admit the good times we had were brilliant but the dad times far out weighed them. I suggested we go to see someone together but it was me who needed to see someone not her... When I finished our relationship we didn't get in touch personally for a few weeks and then one-day we were talking in her office and I told her that she needed help and the relationship wasn't for me anymore, a few days later she invited me to her house where we had a good chat and she admitted she didn't treat me so well etc etc, and decided we give it another go . Up until today has been so so. This week she has started to revert back to type, ignoring Ne in work in the evenings and only sending an odd text if she can be arsed. Do I text het tonight and told her she's reverting back etc etc, now I'm getting the silent treatment and it's all in my head bla,bla,bla, I know her job is extremely stressful but this no way to treat a human being surely? Let alone someone you are supposed to care for. I'm hurting and know I should just man up abd tell her to do one, but I love her to bits, I'm at a low in my life and at a loss as to what to do, I can't turn to my family for support as they won't understand this relationship I'm in and why I care and love my partner. Please could someone shed dome light on this.
Many thanks in advance.