My mom is pretty much dependent upon me. I have missed so many semesters taking care of her and working to support the both of us. My first couple semesters I was actually working, going to school and caring for her. 
Now to go back to school I had to give up my job, because of the hours my job needed. And I decided I need to finish school. Im tired of struggling and want to get a career path going already. Well now. I stay with my b/f and check in and still take care of my mom. But she's living in an unhealthy enviroment. MOLD. She has to take a billion showers because its the only thing that seems to help her chronic pain. As much as you clean it up it comes back and its everywhere. She needs to get out of there, its probably making her sicker and contributing more to her health problems. The thing is everywhere is SO expensive. I cant afford anything, I dont have a job. Do I quit school again to go make more money...its just an endless cycle, I feel like i''ll never get done with school. My only means of income is now coming in from my father who JUST came into my life literally 3months ago. which is about 1,000. Which helps, except I have to support my mom. My only choice is to either try to find another apt close by thats more money where ill have to either stay with her and work and not go to school. Or try to get her to go into assistant living which I would absolutely hate to do. Shes used to being pretty independent but now its gotten to a point she has to be watched after. Or I could ask my Grandmother if she could take her in. Which my G-MA is like 74 years old and in pretty good shape I must admit for her age, but she lives 3 hours away. I havent even brought this up to my mom yet....Im just so stressed.....I dont know what to do .....its all weighing down on me hard. My mom can be the most stubborn person....and we are so very close......(we fight more than ever lately because she's so dependent on me and demanding on me sometimes, I need a life too) I just dont want her feelings to get hurt if I suggest this  to her. 
Its 230 in the morning I cant get to sleep just thinking about it all. I just wish it would all fall into place already I wish I could just blink my eyes and everything be worked out for the best of both worlds.
Thank you for reading.