Hi there, 
 I admitted my grandmother (she's 76) to the hospital with left sided pleuritic pain two days ago (before that she's absolutely fine). No SOB, No cough. She's not spitting out any rubbish or blood. Her oxygen level is 95%. She's diabetic and she's also got breast cancer (on her right side but it is under control). 
 Her X-ray and CT scan showed that there're some shadows on the left side of her lungs (same thing happened to her two years ago but at that time the Scan showed the shadows on the right side of her lungs so the doctors did this biopsy test and the results showed that her lungs are fine and it was just an infection but then later they told us she's breast cancer - very early stage). 
 She had another scan of her brain and the same thing happened. The scan showed some shadows but then they told us it's just this fungus and it can happen because she is diabetic so she's using this nasal spray for this. 
 There're no blood clots, her blood results are fine, heart is fine, kidneys are fine, sugar is under control, blood pressure is normal, oxygen level is 95%, no cough, bone test is normal, temperature is fine now, breast cancer is under control but when she takes a long breath or she tries to cough she feels a bit of a pain on her left side (I thought it could be pneumonia because the temperature is quite low at night here in England and the night before she had this weird pain she took a shower). She does get breathless but I think it is normal for her because she's been suffering from this back pain for 36 years and I have always seen her like this (whenever she takes more than 20 steps she gets breathless but I have always seen her like this). 
 The doctors are going to do the same test with in the next two weeks and a lot of stupid people on the internet say it's always lung cancer. I am really worried about her and I was wondering if you could tell what else it could be? The doctors said it's more likely to be an old infection or something but they are not sure yet. Could you please help me because I am extremely worried about her :(