posted this in ask a doc forum but wondering if anyone here has any thoughts?
 Hello, I have been on and off this sight for several years and have had emotional problems for a long time, most of my life.  I have been seeing a therapist on and off for like a year and a half, but I still am struggling.  for a few months I tried meds to help with the depression but I quit taking them, they made me feel kind of unreal, not myself.  I am very frustrated, I feel as if by now I should feel better, instead I am still plagued by daily thoughts of suicide.. I am a cutter and my right arm is so scarred from the cuts I cannot wear short sleeves, scars from wrist to elbow, more than a hundred just on that arm alone, and I make no exaggerations here. I have this overwhelming sense my therapist doesn't think he can help me and at any time he will stop having me come there with some other excuse cause I am too messed up to help.  I wish I would just kill myself but no matter how many times I write suicide notes and try I cannot go through with it. I wish everyday I would die in my sleep and imagine what my funeral will be like. I have been consumed with the thought that maybe I just am beyond help, that there is no hope for someone like me.  I keep wishing I had just one thing to live for I think about other children and stuff with these awful diseases and I think god must have made a mistake giving me life, it should be given to someone who deserved to live, unlike myself. I don't know what to do. I have reached out and got help but I have failed at that too. I have told my therapist this but that hasn't helped either. I am wondering at this point if it is worth the money. I am not getting any better. I just realize more and more there is not point to my life. I look in the mirror and I am disgusted. I know im rambling but basically just want to know if their are cases where people seek help and find out they cant be helped. and what can I do? what should someone like me do? is this how I will feel forever?