Hi,
 I took Celexa exclusively for almost a decade, and it helped me TREMENDOUSLY. I was diagnosed with low-grade depression and OCD. The medication didn't just help with feeling unable to do simple things like put food away after meal preparation, and refrain from washing my hands 60 times a day. 
 It helped with the OTHER symptoms of depression - difficulty concentrating, racing thoughts, and spatial perception as well as a feeling of being "separated" from the world like there was an invisible shield between us. To sum it up, before I started taking medication, my mind was, in my own words, like NYC central station. It was dirty, it was loud, and it had static intercoms, artificial lighting, plastic food that was shrink wrapped and looked to be of dubious edibility  , with smelly hoboes and creepy people in it.
 Over the years it stopped working so well and that station came back. This is the third time in 1 year I've tried a medication adjustment. We added Abilify, and after 6 weeks I ended up checking myself into a psych ward due to fear and extreme anxiety. I stopped the medication, but the after effects of that episode have sort of been felt for over a year now. In the spring, we tried upping Wellbutrin XL (which I'd started taking a few years ago as an add-on, and had very little benefit) from 150 to 300 - and I think it did help with the depression and anxiety, but here's the problem:
 I got this weird, I can't-quite-describe-it drugged/zonked out/not "myself" feeling. I started reducing the medication back to 150 mg. I still had the mental health problems, but I felt "myself".
 Recently we started with Zoloft. We started at 25mg, and every two weeks went up an increment. Two or three weeks ago, I reached the 100mg place where I stopped increasing. At the same time, we decreased my celexa from 70 to 30. 
 I think the Zoloft IS helping with my depression, but there are also side effects, including this weird, zombie/drugged/zonked out feeling. And the thing is this feeling comes and - it's always there, but it is felt at certain times more than others. 
 I am an addict in recovery, and I cannot take mind-altering medication. Even if I weren't, this weird feeling would not be okay for me. It's a strange thing that isn't a clearly, automatically made aware of. 
 And I am really scared that I'm never going to find a medication that helps with my depression, my anxiety or whatever "that" place my brain was in before. When I took Celexa, it just worked. I was tired, had headaches, and sexual dissipation for a while, but then it went away and the good effects stayed. I NEVER felt increased anxiety or felt this other weird side effect. 
 Any experience, strength and hope in this area would be much welcome. Also - I have public health insurance, and Lexapro is not covered because it is deemed identical to Celexa, and I am not willing to pay three or four hundred dollars a month indefinitely for my prescription.
 Thanks!