Ok I'm posting this for answers, not for everyone to tell me to just leave because this is not a factor for me. Me and my Bf have been living together for 8 months. We recently just got our own apartment. It's very nice and we just love it. But he gets so angery sometimes, over little petty things, and instead of getting mad and pissy back I've recently just looked at him and said "chose your battles wisely" sometimes he will stop when I say that. But other times he has this twelve year old attitude and yells and mocks me. Which really gets to me. Also, at the beginning of our relationship I had found out he cheated on me, three times. I stayed with he because I figured he could change. But the other day at work, we work at the same place just in difffernent areas, I've had a couple people tell me stuff like he wad trying to **** everything that has a slit between there legs, and also this one lady she is basically the work *****, no joke, she will ask any man for a ride somewhere and get in there car and be like oh my ***** is so wet. And actually perform sexual encounters on them. She also has a man at home! But anyway I heard she had ran up to him after work and grabbed onto his arm in a way that I do and said Heyy hunny when are you taking me out and "hanging out". I heard all of this and didn't say one word to him about it. But once I heard more I saw him after work after I had just calmed down and stipped crying. And looked at him and just kept walking which I knew right away was a very bad choice and he came up to me and was like oh I see how you can walk with your own BF and just went on a rampage, so I paniced and told him everything I knew so he was like F*ck you and blah blah blah and just went completely off. He got in my car and started screaming at me and telling me he's done. He took my keys and my phone and wouldn't give me either of them. Which he has a tendincy of doing he has smashed two of my phones and broke my keys, also one of my smaller back Windows by throwing the keys at it. He has ripped plenty of my bras in half. And well instead of saying everything he said I'm just going to say every time he gets mad at me he cuts the deepest. He says the worst things anyone could ever say, and I'm 18 weeks pregnant with our first child. So its pretty hard for me to just deal with it or ignore what he says. It usually puts me to tears. But once I walk away or we spend atleast an hour away from eacgother