I want to stay as anonimous as I can, but this problem became serious, so I am asking for the right place to seek out support or any possible help on internet.
Our family is in big debts (1000-2000 Euro +) and it's serious problem in our country because of high unenployment percentage. My mother is working really hard for small salary and my dad aswell. I am concerned about him, because he started to fall into a depression very often. He says "I don't have anywhere to go anymore." and usually around 23 pm, after work and dinner. It's not just financial state, he's lost his father about 1-2 years ago (and his only support, I boelieve) and .... His medical condition is really bad and we have no money to afford treathments. He is overweight (I mean beer stomach, but still too much) and that's the problem because:
His hip is, we boelieve, badly damaged and it hurts him alot, and leg aswell. It became worse when a thief robbed him (he is a junkie and poliece knows who he is, but the amount of corruption is too high for police to do anything about it). He took away 30.000 dinars (around 300 euros) which was his month salary + side job. After that he lost his old job (Electronic store (fridges, washing machines...) where he lifted heavy stuff) and found a very low paid job (<200 euros / month and not always paid on time). He has trouble walking and can't walk too much because his leg hurts. So...he is unable to do any physical jobs...
He's got cyst (i don't know how to say it on engl.) in his sinuses and breathes very heavily and often has high blood pressure and wants windows to be open in order to cool down and get some air.
 We are 3 in the family and we live in a flat. My mom and I are trying to cheer him up, to talk with him, but he sometimes prefers watching boring stuff on TV and drinking beer (which I think is bad for his condition). Recently, he started showing (for me serious) signs of depression and I am really concerned, altrough I tried to make it easyer for him. We would hug manly and say "It will be better.", but we know it may not. He is also afraid of dying ( if I didn't mention, he is born in 1963., currently 52 years old) and he fears that his heart will stop from heat or from not breeding during the night, because sometimes (often), he coughs during the night and breathes heavily. I've measured his heart beat rate in one of the recent "depression attacks" and it was more than 100, maybe more than 120, but I was too afraid to tell him that, so I lowered the numbers until it really lowered, but still was higher than normal....
 I am writing too much about his unsolved and unable to be solved medical condition, but I've came to this forum in order to find any possible help I can for him, from people that know how to deal with this stuff. I really don't want to let him know I posted this for now (if it isn't nesesarry), but I want to get some advices on what to do, how to have positive impact on him and encourage him to do something with his life (or at least try to)...