Earlier this year I had began dating this girl, let`s call her EX, in one of my classes (we`re in high school). She seemed really sweet and was nice to me and she liked the fact that I was really nice to her. I eventually learned that she has suffered from depression, especially after something that had happened the previous year. She dated a girl, whom she was very much in love with. But her girlfriend cheated on her and left. EX was devastated after this, she resorted to pills and cutting. Now throughout the relationship she was cold and very distant and I assumed it was because of the depression, so I supported her as best as I could. And at first things were going great, but then she started talking to other guys. Which was fine, but they constantly hit on her and flirted with her. Whenever I tried mentioning this, I wound up to be the crazy one. We only hung out once the entire four months we went out. She would constantly complain about me and after every fight I would be the one to apologize. She told me that sex was her boundary and how nasty it was for people to do that. But a month later she sends me this huge text saying that I`m not a man for trying to do this stuff and that I need to take what I want and dating me was like being with a little kid. Later on she started texting her ex again and met up with him. She wanted to go to the movies with him even though her and I never hung out. He confessed his feelings for her and she was going to meet with him the next day. I found out and we got into a big fight over it.
 A few days later she broke up with me saying that she wasn`t in love with me anymore (a week after she said I`m the best thing that`s happened to her.) I didn`t take it very well and was hurt and angry. She apologized for breaking my heart and at first was very sweet about it. She told me over and over we might try again but as time past this changed. Some days she would love me and others she didn`t want me. She`d be rude to me and other days she would be nice and want to get back together. Eventually she told me that she wants to stay single so that she can be happy by herself and focus on being better. I was sad but that`s alright. We got into a few more fights after I got mad about the rude, hurtful things she would say to me. But then I turned out to be the bad guy. One week I was doing fine and texted her to see how she was doing. She blew me off and treated me like I was a joke. I told her that it was rude and that I hate her. The next day she got a new boyfriend (despite saying she wanted to be a better person) and he came after me. Later she texted me, "Oh sorry lol he wont mess with you again". I told her to leave me alone and she just made fun of me. Now she treats me like such a b word and I hate it because I`ve been so so good to her. I wrote poems for her, and stayed up with her, and supported her, and believed in her, and prayed for her, she was my everything. I admit, it was my first breakup and I had a hard time letting go. But now I`m perfectly fine, I`m about to start dating a new girl. But everytime I see EX she treats so badly and I always think I`m the crazy ex who drove her away with his jerkness. Is that the case?