When I was sixteen I was dating a seventeen year old I'll just refer to as "BK". We had been dating for about four maybe five months. One day he asked to have anal sex. I said no right off the bat, but he kept asking and then started telling me that I owed it to him and started using guilt trips on me. So I finally said I would try even though I really, really didn't want to. 
 As soon as he started I said "no, stop it hurts", he didn't pull out but he did stop pushing in. Then he said in a very annoyed voice "I'm barely even in you". So I said I'd try and continue. He went in even deeper and I didn't say anything, trying to handle the pain and hold back tears. But once he was all the way in I said "No I really want you to stop it really hurts". He said again very annoyed "I've hardly even started". I replied "okay", but the pain got worse and then I said "BK it really hurts, I want to stop". BK Then said rather frustrated with me "Just let me finish, just let me finish". So I just said "okay" I then stopped saying anything back, I closed my eyes tightly and clenched my teeth trying to focus on my teeth and not the pain. Silently crying I let him finish.
 But the thing is, I agreed to have anal sex in the first place and though I asked him to stop, I let him persuade me into later saying okay.I didn't raise my voice, I didn't yell, I didn't physically try to get away. I was passive the whole time. I could have continued to say no, but I didn't. And worst of all I just kept saying "okay" or "alright" even though all I wanted was for it to stop. I never even wanted it to happen in the first place. Also he has no idea that I cried, I didn't make any sound and I wiped away the few tears before he ever saw my face. 
 So could that even count as rape? I guess I did give consent, but I didn't want to give consent. He got me to do something I really didn't want to do and he knew that, he knew I wanted him to stop and he knew he was hurting me but I said okay. I just never knew what to make of it all, I still don't.