My husband has always spouted off at the mouth and said horrible things.  Here is the new situation.  He took a job in Sept. in another state,  and I still live in TX.  I am supposed to meet him in Illinois after the new year due to a lease we still have.  He has also moved us from MI, to OK, to TX, and now IL in less than 2 years!  I thought it best to stay at our apt. in TX in case the job in IL didn't work out he would have a place where there are more job opportunities.  He has hated us being apart, but treats me horrible!  He has gotten mad every weekend since he left and this is what he does.  First he will get mad about something little while talking to me on the phone.  Then he will hang up on me and unplug the phone for the whole weekend and I can't get ahold of him.  Then he will type me many nasty e-mails and bring up all kinds of things in our past and stuff he knows about me that happened even before we met.  He threatens to leave me, drop my insurance, leave me on the street, etc.  He got mad last night cause we were talking about Christmas.  I told him that I hoped that we didn't do what we did last year and go overboard on spending.  We spent over 3000.00 on the credit cards for gifts, mainly to his daughters.  He got so mad about that he started pushing the buttons on the phone over and over so I couldn't talk.  Then he said it was His money and I don't help out at all and he could do what he wanted with His money!  He said he had to go and didn't want to talk about it.  He unplugged his phone and still hasn't plugged it back in this morning.  I'm sure he won't either.  I'm sure he would write me some awful e-mail that I would be afraid to open, except that he destroyed his laptop computer last week when I was in IL visiting.  He got mad at me cause I wasn't excited enought about his plan to buy a new 24" screen for it.  He told me that he hated being with me and that I suck the life out of him.  He threw his laptop down and stomped on it.  Now he doesn't even have a computer.  But he gets mad at me for spending any money and he destroys things right and left.  I am so confused about it all.  I keep thinking that if I just knew when to shutup, but when we are talking and things are going good, as they were last night, I let my guard down and feel like I can  speak freely.  Then BAM, he does it again!  I am a mess, a wreck.  I am 50 years old and don't have any real skills to get a great paying job like he does.  He could go on without me and do fine, but I could only make 8.00 an hour or so.  I just don't know what to do, but I'm dying here!  He calls me Eeyour ( the disney donkey) cause he says I am blah.  Well, I am blah now due to so much verbal ****.  I am scared and reduced to a nothing of a person.  Is it me or is he really abusive.  Usually after the weekend, I will call him at work and he will act like nothing ever happened.  Is this normal!  Help!