Hello, I've been here before, and now I'm posting for more advice on my updated situation.
Well, here we go. Let me at first say that my situation is a bit odd, and that may contribute to why its so hard to fix. 
My parents have always been abusive to me, and still are. I know that now, and I can try and start healing my wounds because of it, but first I need to get away from them. Though the abuse has been solidly emotional (Verbal harassment etc). As a result, I continue to have no self confidence, no self esteem, some social problems, etc... Which I hope to work out later in my life. 
Anyways, my problem now is how to get away from them. I'm a 17 year old MALE, who has been emotionally abused, not so common. I have called the police before, I broke down in tears to the officer when he came, he ended up telling me that I wasn't man enough to live on my own, and that it was my fault if my parents ever treated me badly. I have also tried to explain it to my school councilor, and she doesn't get it at all. She thinks that I'm just another teen with raging horomones who doesn't get along with my parents. She reccomended I see a psycologist, my parents would never take me to one, so thats not an option. 
I've looked at emancipation, since in my state you can't just leave when you're 17, you need a court to deem you emancipated or whatnot before you're 18. I have researched this, and it isn't an option for me. You basically need a full time job, and to show that you can take care of yourself. While I'm perfectly capable of living on my own, getting a job is impossible. The problem is, I don't have a car, or my driver's liscence. And I'm sure not going to spend 40 hours in car with one of my parents to get that done, not that they would do it for me anyways, and I still wouldn't have a car. So I'm basically stuck here. 
By this point, you're probably thinking "Well, you're almost 18, maybe you could just wait and fix your life after that." While that may be true, lately my parents have been much worse than they have before. I've been in a pretty heavy depression for over 2 weeks and i'm getting desperate.. 
What do I to cope? Well i don't take it out on others, and I don't do drugs...per se. I used to use my computer, where I made some friends online, and talk about my problem. Plus distractions from real life with games and whatnot, I was actually doing okay, but that reprieve is gone now, and I'm alone and depressed. 
I don't have any relatives or friends that I could stay with, but something was brought to my attention recently. One of these friends I've met online feels so bad that she has offered me refuge at her place so I could get away from my parents. I could turn my life around there, start healing and saving money for college with a job. And no, its not a love relationship. Although, after doing some research, I found that there are several problems with this solution. First of all, If I leave without my parents consent (they would never give consent for this, even though they hate me), they could file a runaway (as I live in Georgia) and have me brought back home, as well as my friend being charged with harboring a minor. Another problem is that she lives about 7 states away, and while I could probably get enough money to buy a plane ticket, or maybe take a train (I haven't looked into that yet), I'm fairly certain that I wouldn't be able to travel on my own without parental consent. And I know running away from my parents to live with someone I met on the internet (and have known for about 9 months) sounds crazy and irrational. But like I said, I'm desperate, and I'm at rock bottom right now, so I don't see how it could be any worse: I've got nothing to lose, and to keep my sanity, I need to try. She is 19 by the way, and while I know people can lie about their identities and whatnot easily on the internet, I seriously doubt that she's not genuine. I'm an overly cautious person, and I've heard her voice. It would be a move motivated by faith in my time of need. 
 So basically, I guess I'm wondering: What can I do? It seems to me that I'm stuck in a pothole, and I really don't think I'll be able to stick it out until I'm 18. 
 I appreciate the time you've taken to read this, and keep in mind that I'm a 17 year old male with your responses, and emotional abuse is much harder to prove than physical. I'll gladly clear up any confusion, as I have hurried with this post, as I am using my parents computer while they are gone.