I consider myself a pretty happy person.  Sure, I have bad moods from time to time, but nothing major.  My spouse, on the other hand, is pretty much the most negative 'poor is me' person and he seems to suck the life out of me.  I'd say about once a month he gets himself so worked up (usually about something I've done, touched or looked at) that he starts throwing, breaking and beating things.  Once he gets in these moods, he cannot get himself out of them.  He might have a normal conversation, but then jump right back into the screaming and degrading.  I am usually the target of these rants, although, there have been afew times where one of the kids got him torked up.  We will be married 10 years this fall.  For the most part, this has been happening throughout our marriage.  I'm not happy.  I feel like I walk on egg shells whenever I deal with him.  He has a *** for tat attitude and it's like dealing with another child.  I also call him 'Captain Destructo' since you can walk through our home and see things he wrecked in the last 6 years since we've lived in our new construction home.  I'm embarrassed at the way he treats me in public when he snaps and yells at me...he doesn't care who is watching.  He'll even do it at church.  Now, I know I'm not perfect and I'm probably hard to live with as well...but I hardly believe he is 'normal'.  I've brought up couseling,and he will SAY he'd do it, but then again, I have to be mommy and make the appt and I'm sick of being mommy...I have 2 kids I have to schedule crap for and I can't handle any more stress.  If he cares, he would take some action.  I should add there isn't much in the sex dept either...I pretty much throw my naked self at him and I'm lucky if he acts interested once every 2 months.  His response when I razz him about it is 'it's not you'.  I'm sure we have many issues.....I just don't know where to start.  I was thinking if I take myself to couseling and get cleared as 'normal', I could ease him into it.  I think he needs something for depression.  But that's just my opionion. Thanks for advice!