I always lie. I can't help it, its not for attention, its not because of fear, i have just always lied, about stupid things and about serious things, i've hurt a lot of people without them knowing it, i use them, i watch them emotionally hurt and know it's because of me, part of me wants to care and feel that, feel sorry for them, and to just stop myself, but somehow i just dont feel that, i feel satisfied because they dont know it's me and i've gotten away with. i've notcied it recently, it's getting worse, i made someone up, pretended they were real, and tricked my friend, they never found it was me, but they hurt for so long, and for some reason it didnt effect me, i've even lied to the police before, and recently i lied about someone dying too. i feel like i'm a sick, disgusting person, but i cant stop myself, i want to, but everyday i lie, i live a lie, i lie to my best friends, to my teachers, to my family, to people i dont know, to both of my counsellors ( i have counselling because i lied about having problems incidently, its just an emotional let out really when i talk to them, every word i say to both of them is a lie), and they all believe me, none of them suspect a single thing. I'm never scared of getting found out, because i just i lie my way out of it. and when i do get found out, i love the challenge they give me, then i just lie my way out of it. I'm starting to worry myself though. it has pushed everyone away from me, im not close to anyone, but i doesnt feel it effects me much, because i just lie and lie and lie, but no one can see through me, they trust me and they would never suspect me, they think they are close to me and know who i am, but i don't think anyone knows the real me anymore. what is wrong with me? i'm hurting so many people, and so badly, and lately it has dropped me into a lot of trouble, i haven't told anyone, truthfully i'm scared of telling people, but i fear for other people now. at one point i did think 'yes i will stop now' but it didnt, it just got worse, and worse, and the thing is, i'm good at it, everything is thought out, i have an answer for everything, i've lied for aslong as i can remember, i just cannot stop, and my own parents have never suspected a thing.