Here's my scenario, having just got back from Canada now living in New Zealand I was in high spirits even though I was expecting to stay in Canada for longer on a working Holiday. Until I find a job (looking very hard for one) I'll be living at home with my brother and mum/dad. 
 Now over the past 3 months, things have really gone south. Stress has entered my life and it revolves around 3 things. My brother, No job, Living at home at 27. Now my brother is even older than I am, he is 29 and Bi-polar and has no intentions of moving out. Since being at home I haven't been out much as I desperately need a job to get my self respect back. So I am always around my brother who has some very bad habits. He has weird and unusual eating habits, he is abusive towards me and towards my parents. He said "I ruin peoples lives" probably because I tell him he needs to move out. He said "you love Tim (me) and hate me" he always personally insults me like saying "Your an f**ing **** and then will just stare at me, or walk up on me to fight" but to sum it up we essentially hate each other. I'm very passive in nature and never insight an argument or fight.
 We all do things that keep us motivated/happy/healthy, for me that's bodybuilding. Even in Canada I was in the gym every other day in great shape. Now upon returning to NZ I was fortunate enough to have all my gym equipment I had accumulated over the years, over $3,000 worth that I dusted off and began using again. In the first 3 weeks of being back home I was stronger than ever and had great confidence. But that's where things changed, I think all these things are getting to me and I've begun feeling nauseated all the time. I've lost weight, gone from 5 solid meals a day + protein shakes etc to barely 3. I'm not working out because my diet is horrible. If I do work out, It's right next to my brothers room who always comes in and tells me I'm too loud, or I hate people who lift weights etc. I got flak even from my parents who said eating steak late at night is not healthy, I hate being told that my diet is ("was" is probably more appropriate at this time) excessive when I know from countless hours of research and 10years of bodybuilding that it is a requirement to gain/maintain muscle. 
 I am probably ranting by now, but this is really getting to me. I'm smoking cigarettes which I normally never do and feel weak and small from loosing this weight from being in this stressful environment. I have been to the doc's who thinks I have an ulcer and I'm in the process of getting tests done for that, also had a shot of b-12 to see if it would increase my appetite. I suppose I don't really have a question anywhere in here, but would like to hear if anyone knows just how physically crippling stress can be especially if your in a situation where it's hard to escape from. I should have a job in the next 2 weeks and thank god I'll be able to move out and be able to live how I want to live without pressure.
 Thanks for reading.