hi all. I'm new to this particular group, not diagnosed with anything but had a few questions...
 #1) can any medications cause a person to hear voices?  and I'm speaking of voices of any kind, whispers, talking, etc. nothing violent.
Due to a back injury over the last year and a half (not in the last 8mo tho), and under doctors supervision I had taken Soma, norco, (recently) Neurontin, baclofen, atarax (for sleep) and low dose ambien (for sleep) as well as unisom on occasion.  I'm 8 months pregnant also, which is why I hadn't taken the soma during the last 8 months. I'm under care of a high risk perinatologist for other reasons, since my first son has down syndrome (it just happened)
 I have delt with severe depression as a child/teen off and on, suicidal at a couple points but was never diagnosed because family didn't notice it. I've always been one to educate myself and keep myself informed on things.
 now...the reason I ask:  We keep white noise on in our room (a fan) and on more than several occasions recently (last few months), I've "heard" people whispering, or talking. Usually a couple or more ppl, almost like a tv that's left on low sound. it's REALLY destracting, and I've only ever heard it while here and normally at night when everyone is in bed.. There have been a few times I thought I heard a knock on the door (during the day) but there wasn't anyone there. 
 this last thing COULD be due to the fact that I live in a house with 6 other ppl (mom, sister, 2 brothers, SIL, hubby and son.)
 Since my last episode of depression as a teen, I haven't had any others. no I wasn't treated for it, it actually took a friend killing herself my sr yr of highschool to get me to see things straight. I've been happily married 4 years. I haven't discussed this with anyone because I didn't think anything of it other than maybe my overtired brain was just working too hard (my first son is 14mo old and I do good to get 4hrs sleep a night)
 I didn't deal with any PPD or anything (you would think I'd have had some depression after what we went throug w/our son being really sick for the first 6mo of his life) and as far as I know no severe mental disorders run in my family. I dont know my biological father's side because he himself was adopted and I've never met him.
  Just wondering what you all make of this......
ttyl
Cindie