Hi everyone, I've been with my boyfriend now for about a year and 2 months. During this time, he's been really depressed. He's told me countless times that he doesn't feel valued by his family, i feel this is because he used to be the baby of the family and his sister has had 2 children and his brother has just had a baby girl. His mother doesn't show him any attention anymore and puts all her energies into talking about the grandchildren all the time. She's even asked us when are we having children which is putting a bit of pressure on us, I'm 18 going to be 19 in March and he is 19 going to be 20 in march if that helps. He's quite independant to an extent, his mother hasn't taught him basic things such as cooking a simple meal or the ironing. When he does ask her for help she doesn't help her which puts some stress on me beacuse I have to help him, not just have to I want to.He keeps looking up things on the internet for example how to tell if your girlfriend loves you and how to handle suicide. I hada  feeling he was feeling unhappy so I've asked him so many times if there's anything he wants to tell me and he insists he's fine and doesn't want to tell me anything. Then one day I when I was staying at his house, I came into his room and he clicked off the webpage as I came in, and I asked him what he was looking at and he said oh its nothing. Later that day he done it again, so things started coming into my head, so when he went to the toilet, I looked on his history the tings I saw I couldn't believe my eyes. Ways to kill yourself, why am I not happy? How to hide feelings of depression and quizes of all sorts. I then went on the NHS website and looked for help, I found a number called the samaritans and he phoned them over new years and spoke for about an hour, I thought the problem was gone from what he said, everything was fine. Then he started clicking off the webpages again. This time I found more disturbing things, I want to help him I really do. I just don't know how we've tried talking I'm thinking of counsilling but his mum says he doen't need it, she doesn't know the things I've seen on his computer. He doen't really like talking about his feelings I don't pressure him or anything I tell him to tell me at his own time and if he needs space to think I'll go out for a bit for him. He'd rather look at the internet for advice, I've told him not to because not everything on here is real, if anything it makes things worse.He says that he's not happy at home and I'm currently looking for a flat for myself, he says he wants to live with me he's more than welcome, his mum says he shouldn't move in with me and she slags me off behind my back, he tells me what she says about me and its quite hurtful that she smiles in my face but says these things about me.I just don't know what to do anymore, I'm desperate for an answer because I don't want to see him hurting anymore, I want him to be happy. If it helps I'm Black Jamaican British and he is White British.