about seven months ago i engaged to a girl whom i am knowning n liking from childhood, we soon started talking n every thing was running smooth n very fast we met few times.but aftr 3 months she suddenly started behaving mysteriously after putting some presure she aceepeted she was in affair before me and also had physical relatn few times she talk to her ex n tryed to go back to him.soon she acepted had a suecid attemp twice folowing a phase 15 days wth sleeplessness anxeity,know she says that she is ok but stil losing wt by 44kg to 38kg,dont want to face anybody neither goes out of home,does not talk.when ask anything she say i dont know what i want.i also asked her that if she wants to go back or want to marry me she is not confident abut her will.her famly has not allowed her ex to talk ot her,leving every deceisn on me only.what is her problm is she feeling exposed or is realy guilty or what? 
 doctors suggest her parents that we should get married soon as possible, 
but I fear if sometime after marriage if she feel like strange or like unsatisfied or become doubtful or double minded and get suicidal, then what? although my parents suggest that don’t fear anything just get married to her, you are not doing anything wrong trying everything in favor of her inspite of this if anything has to happen then nobody can do anything except GOD. 
She does not fear me likes me but says don’t  know what she wants? 
actually we are from India and her elder sister is unmarried and in our community its very difficult for elder sisters to get married with a married younger sister or having history of suicide in family, although her parents are ready for her marriage but she wants to wait for her elder sisters marriage as she say her early marriage will cause trouble in elder sisters marriage and she don’t want to create any more problem in her family because of her, 
now I fear that if she has decided in her mind like after her sisters marriage she will commit suicide since she feel like she has done wrong with every one and her suicide at this stage will cause problem in her family and sister marriage 
So what should we do believe her or not? or wait for her sisters marriage according to her. 
I do think that our marriage will help her to come out of this phase, and if she continue like this may lead to any mental instability. 
What should we do? her sisters marriage will be a arrange marriage and may take some months to a year or more. 
                      For last four months whenever i wokeup first thing come in my mind what she has done to me constantly looking at God saying i was not that much bad you shuold not have done this to me.
we both are broken down from deep inside i stil love har but dont know how i will ........ her?