I'm a 21 year old girl. It all started 2 months ago I started with my anxiety and it led me to think I was diabetic, it lead me to think I had a heart disease and now hiv. But it's because I haven't been feeling good soo I started googling my symptoms and of course all these diseases popped up and I started thinking the worse but I heard anxiety can do that to you. My heads just been really itchylike my scalp, my throat hurt at first but now it doesn't it at times it does , my mouth always felt dry but it went away, my vision gets blurry a lot, my upper back and side of my left neck started hurting, my head hurt, my collar bone and heart started hurting, I got a yeast infection, my hands are starting to get dry, my hair has been falling off a lot, and my foot has been really itchy but I have athletes foot on my left foot but now my right foot is starting to catch it, my hands hurt and fall asleep at times, it feels like joint pain,  my chest feels bruised at times and I get pain in random parts of my body :(ohh and I forgot to mention I've been having tooth ache. All my teeth hurt including my jaw.  I've had unprotected sex with 4 different guys this year and I got a tattoo done at a friends house. I don't know of this is my guilt getting to me it just seems all to real to think it's anxiety I got tested 2 months ago at planned parent hood for hiv and it came out negative. I just got tested again but this time I feel like it'll be more accurate. I'm really scared.im getting my results on the 31st. I haven't been stressing though. I bought a journal and I write in it almost everyday. I feel like I'm dieing though like the virus is already affecting me and it scares me. I'm 21. I'm soo young and soo scared. I feel like I take my life for granted. Your not alone I'm going through the same thing. I've been to the ER 2 times already and I got a physical and they said my health is good but the last test I need to do is the std test which I just did. My bf and I had unprotected sex a few weeks ago and I feel like I ruined his life. I stress everyday because I may have infected someone. My skin has been soo sensitive lately and my eyes get really red at times. Is this all stress am I over thinking. I have generalized anxiety according to the doctor but I don't feel right and I can't accept that it's anxiety if feels to real but I won't find out till this test. I'm glad everything is going good for u. I'm really scared. I might have ruined mine and my bfs life. I told him about it and he went to the clinic. He told me he's sticking around reguardless but still like it hurts me soo much . I feel like the most terrible person in the world.I'm tired of feeling alone. My family know I'm going through anxiety but they don't know what for. I'm going on family trip next week but I'm scared. My anxiety has been messing with me randomly at work things will start hurting and they'll be times where my head starts hurting and I start thinking is this anxiety or is this real. Yesterday I thought I was going to pass out at work things just started hurting and my thoughts were going crazy. I'm a cashier so I can't show how I'm feeling soo while I was greeting people I felt like I wanted to die .now u know my story and I hope things get better for me. Hope ur having a good day :)