Hello 
Please read me and any advice no big or small will be very much apreciated.
I've been with my partner for 3 Years now this guy ain't just any he is the love off my life hes my soul mate we have always wonted to be WIth each other from the very first time we meet but due to past relationships at that time we couldn't but eventually it did happen.
We have had a hard few years at the beginning off the relationship I did cheat on him, he got locked up its no excuse but I was going through a awful time I think that's why I did it, I've never cheated on any partner so to do it to him I just Dont no what I was playing at, I didn't tell him what I did if I'm honest I had no intention on telling him because I was terrified off loseing him, I decided at the time to say nufink but it suddenly dawned on me I'd have no choice!'
what was about to happen to me I couldn't have prepared myself for!'
I booked a visit to go see my partner in Doncaster jail I was going to book the train but a consion of my boyfriend said he had arranged me a lift and he would be here to pick me up the next morning.
the morning came I got dressed and I remember being very nervous about seeing him because I hadnt scene him since I'd cheated and he was very good at reAding me I thought he would no that I'd fuked up but I pulled myself together and then my lift arrived...ohhh my god I can't go with him I though my man would kill me if he new who drove me to see him it was the very person my Man had told me to stay away from, I didn't arange the lift so I didn't no it was this perticul person I decided to ignore my boyfriend and except the lift one I'd live to regret.
he took me to the jail I sin My partner he asked who bought me and I lied and said it was a friend when it wasn't he believed me so all was good the visit was ok I was thence through out the 2 hours I'm sure he new what I'd done but I kept quiet and didn't admit nothing we said our goodbyes kiss cuddle and I went remember feeling sick cuz I new I had to get bak in the car with this weirdo on the way home he kept making jokes how he wishes he was with me and how I should leave my partner and be with him, I said u got no chance not being funny but he had a uncomfortable dimina about him so I constantly felt awkward..
we arrived at mine house where he said he needed the toilet he came in went toilet then asked for a drink, something didn't seem right... He then dropped it I no what u did!!! What u on about I no u slept with....  I denied everything he then started to get nasty he said if u dnot sleep with me I will tell....  U did anyway and when he's out in 3 weeks he will leave u anyway I broke down tears flooding my face It was awful then the moment came my life would never be the same.
we was in my house for hours he just woundnt go I went up stairs and was u there ages he was down stairs so I thought cuz I was in the bathroom I'd washed and Nock Nick on the door I felt sick I new it was him I started to panic. I opened door and And asked what he wanted he said u I just laughed nervously I had a towel around me he grabbed my arm and dragged me in bedroom I instantly started to cry no no I said he through me on bed my knees was bruised where they hit the wooden bed fframe my wristes had bruises on them where he grabbed me he told me I had a nice body it may sound strange but I'm a very feisty person but while he raped me all I did was lie very still tears ran down my face I cudnt breath, I don't Like this bed he pulled me up and took me again into my daughter's bedroom he then did it again in there, I was broken the old me has gone I'm totally new now I though I cud not stop crying as he got off me he told me to get dressed he then asked if he could take me to the cinemas how sick this guy isn't normal.
all I could think about is what I was going to tell my partner my life's I was. Distraught for days my boyfreind was due out any day I'd made the decision to tell him soon as he got Home. 
The day of release came he called me hi babes I'm on my way home I'm at Doncaster train station ok I said make sure u come straight home as I got something to tell you?? What he said tell me we argued and I had to tell him over the phone.,.silence not a word then phone went dead..I didn't c him for 2 days after that I thought the worst was over how wrong was I the worst was still to cone when he got Home we talked but something didn't seem right, he then started calling me a lier the monster who raped me not once but twice told him he didn't even sleep with me never mind rape me my lover my soul mate calling me a lier it broke me in 2 it felt worst then the rape.
we are still together but please WI'll someone give me advice I can not get over the fact that my love of my life didn't believe me it's been 18 months ago but it still feels like yesterday that he said I was lieing he nos about me cheating and about who took me to see him in jail and his reason for not believeing me is because I lied about that stuff I any lied about cheating because I cudnt bare to lose him.
I really don't no what to do its killing me we have moved on from so much stuff but this keeps dragging me bak please will someone help me it's ruiening my life x