Hi there, i do not suffer fromn stress myself (i dont know how) but my brother was in the army several years ago and saw some horrific things and had some horrific experiences, including seeing one of his best friend being shot beside him and killed, he's 27 and naturally quite healthy. for the last few years now, he started hurting himself and had twice almost succeeded in comiiting suicide by taking an overdose on parecetmol and alcohol and one other time wher he drank bleach with orange juice. he also takes to cutting his wrists, and says he feels better once he has done this. he has been to see someone regarding his problems and was hypnotised, it seems to have helped slightly but sometimes you still feel that you are walking on egg shells, he drinks far too much and tries to start fights with anyone that steps on his path, sometimes people he has never met or maybe memebrs of the family. he has a little boy aged 7 and hardly spends any time with him and when he does all he does is shout at his little boy and the wee man goes home and asks his mummy if he is a bad boy beacuse daddy shouts at him all of the time. my brother had a secure job but was signed off from work as a result of shouting at a customer who was asking for help, now he has been signed off for more than 8 months, he was sacked and he seems to ahve no interest  in actually goin back to work, he stays with my dad and dad doesnt work either because of his own disabilities, dad gets the brunt of my brothers anger when my dad is the one giving my brother all of the support he could ask for. my brother was in a relationship that has just ended because of his anger, he would sometime trash his ex's flat or even harm her. he has just started seein someone else and i am worried that if he does not sit the new gf down and discuss his problems with her, he might end up losing her too. sometimes aswel he will phone either me, or dad, or other people at stupid hours of the morning and will worrie us out of our minds by telling us he is walking the streets and saying he's sorry.  do you think the things he does are because he feels guilty in some way? he never had a brilliant child hood either with his mother only wanting him wen she decided.