This is likely one of the most cliche forums to see, but I really need help...
 I've recently been feeling really sad and hateful towards myself because I feel unattractive and undesirable. I don't like how I look whatsoever (no surprise there) and I don't think guys do, either. I can tell this is obvious because I get -no- attention from any of them, they don't even -look- at me. Their eyes are always on my gorgeous friends or something... 
 I'm so confused because my friends tell me I'm beautiful and pretty, yet the opposite sex doesn't seem to think the same. If it is them, then they're either not my type or too young/old. 
 I've been called ugly more than once by guys, so this has really put me down also. However, it was a long time ago.. like, years ago. I've also been told that I look like a 10 year old. :/ Maybe that's what it is? Either way, it's really put a weight on my back. I got so sad today that I left school early, but that was mainly because a cute guy who actually seemed interested really wasn't, 'cause he said he had a GF. I could have sworn he was interested in me by the way he was acting and all the stares he was giving me and the fact that he initiated conversations, but.. nope. Just my luck. Maybe it's 'cause I have yet to see the behavior in men? I don't have much experience with them, but that's mainly due to skipping two years of school from a personal problem.. yeah, I was away for quite some time. He would be the second guy in my experience to seem interested WITH a GF. 
 After that, I told him I get barely any attention from guys and he didn't really say anything.. it was as if 'he could see why'. I don't know, maybe I'm just paranoid but it really caused everything to come tumbling down on me. When I was walking home from school I started beating myself up in my head, calling myself ugly and undesirable.. all that crap. I even cried. I just hate myself.. I'm sick of being alone. I want to know what it feels like to be with someone; I want that experience! If I'm so pretty and ****, then WHAT'S WRONG WITH ME? I try to be friendly with everyone and wear a smile on my face, but even still they don't pay me any attention. 
 Btw, I'm 16..