I've been hanging in there for 3 years now since I last told him I wanted a divorce.  He talked me out of it and for a few months things were good.  Now it's back (and has been for a long time) to the same thing.   He is never home.  Gets home around 10pm eats and goes to sleep...this is a nightly ritual.  He goes to Mexico every month fishing.  During that time I don't hear from him and if I try to call him there is never an answer.  Then he claims the calls don't go through.  This last time he when he got home about 3 pairs of pants and 3 shirts were missing.  When I asked him where they were he got mad at ME!  saying nothing is missing.  Since I do the laundry I know how many pairs of pants etc he has because I know how many days he can go before I have to do a load.   I honestly think he has a girlfriend down there.  He has a second cell phone that never comes out of his truck.  One time I was able to check it and there were multiple back and forth calls to a woman down there.  On occassion he has even called me by her name, but cleans it up because her name is the same as my dads (who is deceased) - The time I checked that phone I wrote the number down, but it "somehow" disappeared out of my wallet.  He gets bent out of shape if I am with my neighbors when he is gone...paranoia that we are talking about him.  If my neighbors invite both of us over for a cookout he never makes it, then gets an attitude because I went.  He has no interest in our house...been saying for 2 years now that he is going to clean up all his stuff - our home looks like a junk yard because he saves everything.  He is vulgar, verbally abusive ....I can go on but I think you've heard enough.
 What I am wondering is if there is a "correct" way to tell him I want a divorce without it leading to a never ending battle with him accusing me of anything he can think of and turning the tables...He's very manipulative.  I just want a divorce.  I don't want to have to defend myself, because when it is all said and done I really don't care what he thinks of me.  And all his accusations are false.  I don't want to be his friend.  I don't want to  hear his lies and excuses.   I've even thought of writing him a letter just so I don't have to listen to his rant.
 We have no children, but we do own 4 homes.  I paid for 2 of them, paid for the land that the 3rd home is on (he paid for the manufactured home we put on that land, and I put the down payment on our personal residence... We are in a community property state....but on that note, I would be entitled to half of his boat, his motorcycle, his quad, etc.  So I'm hoping I can use that as leverage.  
 Sorry, I'm going off on a tangent.  I'm just so stressed out.
 any advise would be appreciated.