Need someone to talk to. I have nobody I can relate to right now. I am going thru a divorce and been seperated for over years and have 3 boys. My oldest is 25 and has severe anxiety and agoraphobia and deppression. I also do have depression have for many yrs its alot worse now, I am living with my parents again for the fourth time. I hate it here even tho they have been nice but cant really talk to them. My middle son has been on drugs for yrs and now is drinking also. I dont have my boys they live with my husband which is even harder on me. My son has been in and out of dt many times and in and out of court and cost me and husband thousands of dollars. My sons are 25 17 and 15. I have been married for almost 28 yrs and my husband has abused me since before we got married and did throughout our marriage,physical and mentally and my two older sons have too. They have broken my bones i have been thru surgeries in the past. Then I have had 2 boyfriends since i have been seperated and they both hurt me badly. The boyfriend had not too long after i left my husband was very nice but was lazy and lied to me and very irresponsible didnt know that i wanted to marry him loved him very much or thought I did at the time. I was hysterical when he left me,didnt know he was going to he left out of state with all his bills in the apt we had together and in my car. I found them all after he left me I was devastated.He was so different from my husband thats why I fell for him so hard and I didnt want to meet a man and was happy at the time living by myself and he came along and was so happy and we were only together for 8 months when he left. He knew all the abuse I went thru and he ended up hurting me so bad and i told him I never ever wanted to live at my parents house again,thats where i ended up. All this time looking for a job even when I was with my husband couldnt get one. I havent been able to because of domestic violence charges against me which I never deserved. Then now i am living back at my parents now again because of another man i trusted and he was abusive to me like my husband was and left me too and left the state like my last boyfriend.I am just too trusting and stupid and too nice with men.I have new charges against me now with this last jerk that i didnt deserve like with my husband,I know this sounds bad like a pattern but if u really knew me and talked to me u would understand,there is too much to say that cant be done typed. It would take me hours to type.I just want to find some friends,I have nobody to talk to I have sisters but they dont want to hear my crap and are busy.I have no friends at all just neighbors here that are my parents age and i sit in the house all day and do nothing because right now I have a broken ankle and i just a cast off my arm from a broken elbow. I want to find a job and have tried to volunteer with several places they wont let me with my charges and why I have cant find a job with background checks now. I am broke I have no money for gas for my car and its old and needs tires. I have no money for anything,my parents feed me and let me live here but I cant have a social life or do anything with no money or a job.