please how fast and early u can reply. reply it soon.
hello, sir
           my name is x "(fictious name)". and i want treatment solution,
advice and consulting from u sir. for my hidden humiliation and assault. i am aged 22 now and next year i am going to be 23. i am a male. and a college intermediate discontued person from 4 years back. i left my interest in studies and everything after an incident 7 years back, when i was in school in 9th class and i was 15 or 16. when i passed in 8th class exams my mother and my grandfather forced and convinced me to take double promotion, means jump from 8th class to directly 10th class. without studying 9th class. but unluckily i failed to manage between seniors and discontinued whole 9th class year just roaming, bunking and sitting in home. in this year i lived a life sentence to death, hell, evilness, doom, depression, sadness, extreme suffering, pain, darkness and so on. because i became a victim of a crime and doomness i never thought to be existed. i was unknown and new to the real world and was out from the school`s shell. first i got victimed and addicted to "seeing sexiness in explicit magazines, books and internet". it really turned me on and into the differrent world to which i was new and unknown. i really got dangerously addicted to the world`s beautiful and the worst crime to feel and deserve. i started penis masturbation and use to be most of the time in home in closed room exercising sex practises : as seeing sexy photos, reading erotic books and masturbating penis. once i got really scolded and disturbed by my mother. in response i too mistalked irrespectedly, awkwardly, and abruptly.and i gave one abuse to my mother first time in my life. and went out from my home and stepped to a playground halfly like a forest surrounded with some mountainly rocks and whole wild trees. some people were playing cricket in the ground. the mostly played game in the ground was cricket and i too was a regular player of it for my favourite sports that time. so when i was playing cricket, i was wicketkeepering, i missed a bowl to catch and it went into trees. i runned to take the ball, there i saw a tree of a mini fruit there i was plucking some of the small fruits there just for some taste. in that trees there was routes from the different roads to enter. suddenly from back of me a man came and told me that do you want some more fruits easy to pluck. as the tree was full of thorns. i agreed to pluck it in the easiest way. he directed me to an inside and cornered place and after him an another man appeared he was tall, strong and another was medium and strong. i guess they were around age of 30. they both surrounded me i asked what happend brother why are you taking me here. suddenly one of them started caress me. he was pressing my buttocks and touching chest.i tried to shout and escape. but both of them torchered and feared me to kill me if i escape. one took out mini knife. i found my self very helpless and they unconsciously analled me one after the other. i was just crying asking escape from them. both of them analled me once and left me. i was just experiencing the force of their strength and my weakness of strength. and was undergoing a feeling of unhelpfulness, mourns and screams. after that i came to home and once more i shut myself in a room and cried and feeled a feeling of pain, suffering and all feelings of actual damnation. later i thought it was a punishment to me for mother irrespectings and all mistakes i have done in the past. after that i survived to be good and always loyal and antievil person. i didn`t told my indcident to anyone as i was unable to speak to anyone. from that time till now i hided the fact. but consciously listen this suffering process for truly, accurately and precisely advicing me for a better and possible result. from the incident till now my suffering has gradually showing its effects and affects to me. firstly it really forced me to be really active, strong, aware and conscious. i guess i was some lazy before but a workharder one. i used to spend my lot of energy in playing outdoor games like cricket, football and all. the incident taught and gradually i too learned lifely lessons. the relations and the world. sometimes i think i am clever but i feel i am not. sometime i feel really unclever and i want to become one. i have so much confusions in my life to decide i feel very angry and aggressive mostly. when i sacrifice(hide) my intentions i feel i am not as one complete human my body, my brain really forces me to someother character which i fight to hide it with self. i think i did a mistake by not consulting a doctor. but i was not educated or aware of that. i am really struggling to live a better and common life. but all the time i struggle to maintain my unstable emotions, feelings, muscle and balance of body blockages, mental activities and all. please help me, i really need some help. i want to know that is there a cure for my assault. i want to live a common and simple life of relief. i feel pressure and stress everytime. i feel i am in hell. please help me. i have not consulted a doctor since 7 years for anal assault and i am a male. nowadays my body and mind is extremely out of my control and my anus is urging for fingering. yes and i did yearly or halfyearly anus fingering. yearly or halfyearly when itching starts  in
 anus it ends only by fingering. i mostly (feel)
think of suicide, killing criminals, self destruction, pain, punishing, justice and hell. and please suggest one more thing i just saw a girl 2 or 3 times before this incident when my family and i was in other area`s house. now also i am in same city but in other area and house. please suggest me that i saw her 7 years back before some time of the incident and from that time i really kept her in my memory and mind. why i dont know but know i am feeling her need very much nowadays i want to get her married. i really love her. please urgently offer me a suggestion because i have told my parents to talk about my marriage. and i am really feeling very uncomfortable and unmanageable keeping this hell disease in me of instability. in less than 5 months there is going to be a solution for my marriage but before it i want to heal from my disease and assault. till now i was really unconcerned and uninterested in me. i was lost in my doom and pain. but i think now i have pointed out for solution and i really want to cure it. please help me, please help me, please help me. i will be very thankful to you people to help me out. 
                                                                                     good bye and have a nice time.
abuse : male anal assault