Sorry for the long story you can skip to the simple list if you'd like, at the bottom. 
 Me and my boyfriend have being going out for about 3 months. I love him to death, but I noticed some problems right away but sort of ignored them at the time. He has a very, very low self esteem. He considers himself a monster, but blaims everyone else for what he does. He gets into fights often, and when he tells me about them, its sounds to me like he picked every single one of them! But he seems to think they did by like looking at him wrong when he was clearly in a bad mood...stuff like that. 
 But that never involved me, he always treated me great and was sweet to me. So I didn't say much about it...and then I found out he slept with his friends girlfriend...whom is over there often since his friend lives there. I had a problem with it, because I didn't think it was nice and it says a lot about being able to trust him. But of course he believes its his friends fault for having a slutty girl, and her for coming on to him...So I said wow, and that's not very cool to your friend.  He got mad and said I was wrong for judging him...I don't know somehow I ended up apologizing...saying I was sorry I just have trust issues sometimes. Since he assured he would never cheat I let it go. 
 A week after we have sex and the next day he freaks out on me saying it burns when he pees. Accusing ME of cheating, and saying I gave him an std. Of course I'm clean...and it must have been caused from something else but he still doesn't trust me. And finally just last night I don't know what was going on around him but he broke up with me. ..I was crushed but I said ok if thats what you want...an hour later he calls back, saying he took a bottle of pills and he was killing himself. He asks me to come over and by then I'm crying I say ok. Before I leave I tell my mom and she says I have to call the police...so I do and they sent someone over. 
 He calls me again pissed off now, yelling saying it was a huge mistake and I was going to regret it. I told him I was only worried about him because I love him and I didn't know what to do. He says I'm just like everyone else, and he can't trust anyone now. The world is out to get him. And that was it...
 But today he calls me, completely normal. He did say "sorry I went a little insane yesterday" and that was it. He was saying he loved me and he missed me ssoo much. Then moved on to talking about what he was eating. Of course I can't just shrug it off so easily I ask him what happened why he did that. He claims to not remember anything that happened. And that he never broke up with me. But that's still not enough I mean he broke my heart and tried to kill himself and now its like it didn't happen. So I keep asking, and he says he told me he doesn't remember...and I hear the warning in his voice and I start to cry. And he's not sympathetic at all! he just gets angry, he asks "what your breaking up with me now?" And stupidly I said "No I'm just hurt by it all, I want to talk about it" He tells me he already said he was sorry, and he was tired....So I told him we had to talk about it tomorrow then. And then he was fine again...he said he loved me and goodnight. 
 Besides all that craziness, most of the time he is very loving, he wants to hold me in his arms all night and he says the sweetest things. He gets sad when I have to  leave, and insists I stay the night so he can hold me. That's why when all this started to happen I was completely in shock, thinking there must be something going on since he wasn't being himself, I wanted to help...but after yesterday, I'm starting to think that's just the other side of him. Everyone wants me to dump him...I know I should it's stupid to let him treat me like that, and it may just get worse it being the beginning of the relationship...But I love him, and it hurts to think of us breaking up...I just want to see if there is another option. 
 So what I have gotten from reading, his symptoms or other weird behavior I have seen are :
 Poor self image
Mistrust in others when he has no reason to
Impulsive (getting into fights, stealing, ect..) 
Suicidal threats AND self mutilation 
Anxiety (he complains of this often)
Becoming angry out of no where almost everyday (usually not at me though)
Paranoia 
Accusing me of cheating 
Angry when I confront him 
Victimizing himself
Getting very lonely when no one is around, and calls me at 2am 
Doesn't want me to leave when I come over 
Usually when I ask him how he is doing, he replies with irritated, pissed off, lonely, or something negative. 
He says he is mean to people, but he is nice to me because I haven't wronged him. (Idk what that could mean) 
  I don't know could it be that he is borderline? If not what do you think? And what can I do to help him and get the old him back?