Hi. Pardon if this is long. I could really use some advice and appreciate any words you can give to offer me some piece of mind. I just ended a 9mo relationship (lesbian). This was my 1st same sex relationship and I am 37.
The first few months were blissful and then I was having issues trying to come to grips with being gay. I do admit I pulled away from my partner a few times because this was new to me and I was scared. About three months into the relationship her reactions were very verbally afflicting. She would call me an "*******" and a "******". I overslept once because I was depressed and she broke up with me, changed her number (she came back three days later). It got to the point if she didn't like what I said she would break up with me and tell me she was "done forever", it was over, only to return again. She kept doing this and it really killed me and my affection towards her died.
This last break up was really bad. She told me she hated me and came over and demanded her key. She pulled my hair and dragged me up the stairs. It was very abusive. I was a mess. I didn't know what to do. I couldn't even rationalize with her she was so mad. She spit in my face. Hours later she called me crying that she "wants me" and leaves a message she hopes I got home ok. The next day we talk on the phone for three hours and she is flirting with me. The day after that we talk for another three hours and she tells me she wishes we got help and went to counseling but "hindsight is 20/20".
Fast forward a week and she goes up North, hooks up with her ex and now they are dating. This is an ex she dated 10years ago who is currently going though a divorce and her ex is living with her until Sept. I called her stating I thought she might be back with her ex (I really felt it in my heart). She called me and met me in a parking lot. We sat on the back of her truck and hugged for hours. She told me she wanted to marry me but I wasn't ready for a relationship. As soon as I showed any affection she got very angry and told me I was mean to her and I ruined our relationship. She continued to say she could not talk to me again because she cannot lose this other woman (who lives several states away). She doesn't hate me but she is 110% done. I just feel bad I caused someone to be that angry towards me.
 I know this sounds like a horrible relationship. It was and the more I type on the forums it is helping me. Does it sound like she might be BPD? Also, she recycles all her exes at least once. Right now, this ex she is going to is the only one who has stayed friends with her through all this. I really wonder what is going to happen there given who she is. I want her to be well. All I know is yesterday she was hugging me telling me she loved me and today she tells me if I jeopordize her relationship with her new girlfriend she will resent me forever. I am so hurt having just been dumped, she is dating her ex and trying to string me along. What the hell is this? I am so glad I have therapy tonight! Thanks for listening.