Well here is my problem it is kinda lengthy. On May 16th I was doing a PT test in the military. Everything was going fine as usual until I was on my last lap of my 2 mile run. While I was running I felt a pop followed by a little pain. At the end of the run when I was cooling down I felt achy but not so bad that I could not walk. The following days it just got worse and worse. So bad it was painful even to walk and get out of bed in the morning. So I went to the doctor and I was told I pulled my groin. So I took it easy and was told I could work through it. So I took it easy but everytime I tried to run I had extreme throbbing and pain in my hip area. So I went back of course and was told to take bed rest. So I did. I returned feeling a little better and was told I could attempt a pt test I had coming up. So as usual it was going great until again on the run. I could not take a full stride because the pain was unbearable. I was taking half strides and that to was extremely painful. After the run I was rushed to the ER because I could not even walk. I was told at orthopedics that I tore something maybe and I would need an MRI to see what was going on. I was refered to physical therepy on top of that. So I went to physical therepy and was told I dislocated my legs? He did some streches on me and I did feel a little better but the pain was still there. He told me it would hurt for a while because it was out of socket for awhile but I wa okay to run. So I believed him and ran and then the same thing happened and I was to the point simply trying to get out of bed was a nightmare. Even coughing killed me. So I go to my MRI after waiting a month and the results were a focal triangular shaped area of abnormal signal in the femoral neck involving part of the lesser trochanter with edema in the periosteal soft tissue. I also have the same in my right leg as well. Signal symmetrical is strong support for stress induced abnormality. The impression states 1. Stress reaction versus early stress fractures affecting the medial aspect of the left femoral neck and part of the lesser trochanter. Also slight edema in the adjacent soft tissue. Incidentally noted is abnormal signal in the right femoral neck and adjacent tissues as well in the same location. So my ortho says it is a stress fracture and wants me in bed for a month. The physical therepist says it is nothing and I should be running. Mind you the physical therepist is military and the ortho is a civilian doctor. Anyway I was just seeing if anyone has ever had this same injury or knows anything about it? All i know is when I attempt to run it feels like my legs are going to fall off. It has been about 2 months since the inital injury and I have been on bed rest for about 2 weeks and was given crutches to get around. Please any input would help greatly.