My younger brother (age 44) has had issues with alcohol, pornography, and low self esteem for years. In recent years, I've learned that he was  sexually  abused by other males when he was a child.  He feels like he should have prevented it somehow and now he wants to die.  He is married with a great wife and a daughter.  She has told me that he has problems having sex with her.  
  He will be fine for a while, and then suddenly after drinking, become very down on himself, calling himself a loser, no good, he wants to die.  The next day, he says he didn't mean it and apologizes. Then he will seem fine for weeks or even months, sometimes a whole year.  He is a born again Christian and prays that God deliver him from the pain, but He never does.
 I know now that one abuser was actually a preditor.  He was the manager of a movie theater and met my brother when he was  about 8.  My parents took him to a movie and my brother got bored and wondered around and met the theater manager.  After that, this man, who seemed very nice and really good looking, would take my brother to movies or bowling, stuff like that.  Sometimes he would  bring a "girl" friend along who seemed very nice and sweet.  I was about 12 at the time and don't remember very much except that this guy seemed nice, my parents liked him and willingly let my brother go out with this guy.
 Last night his wife told me that he has been talking about other men that have sexually abused him when he was younger.  He was just a little boy and yet he thinks he could have prevented it or fought them off.   The theater manager used pot to get him high so he could take advantage of him.  
 Is there anything I can say to help him?  He is really beating himself up over it, but I think the abusers were cunning and knew how to get him to do stuff.  
 I have been wondering if maybe he even may have "played" with other boys, teaching them what he learned.  Maybe that's why he is so hard on himself.   That's what I did.  It's a cycle in a way.  I felt guilty for years over what I did to this one younger girl (I was about 9 or 10 and she was probably 7 or 8).  My girl cousin showed me how to have an orgasm and when I got home, I showed other girls in the neighborhood.  They told their parents, who told my parents and I got in trouble.  
 I stopped doing that because I kept getting into trouble and eventually began to have crushes on guys my age.  
 When I was 12, a 17 yr old, took me into bed with him and did stuff to me.  He wanted to have sex but I couldn't and he didn't force that issue.   What he did hurt enough   Me and my brother were staying at my grandparents farm and they would have farms hands live with them from time to time.  They were usually people they knew, kids from town.   It was an old house and the bedrooms didn't even have doors, just a sheet over the doorway.
 What can I do for my brother?  His wife and I think that the guy that took me to his bed at age 12 might also be one of men who abused my brother.  She is going to try to bring it up to him and then maybe my brother and I could talk.  I'm not sure what to say to him though. 
 Do boys have more guilt when they are abused?  Like their masculinity has been taken away?
 Can anyone shed some light on the best way to help a guy who was abused?  I'm afraid that someday he may actually commit suicide to get away from the emotional pain.  He has said this in the past when he is drunk but the next day, he forgets everything and says he never meant it.
 I've looked for articles on the web but haven't found anything that can explain in a rational way.  Children can be curious about their bodies and maybe even play doctor, but that's usually between children of the same age.  Some people even think that is wrong but I think it's sort of "normal" to wonder what some "looks" like, if they are different than you.  Is there a definition of sexual abuse that I could tell him?  
 Please someone help.  I’m at a loss of what to say to him anymore.