Anhedonia (emotional numbness) which is an absence of pleasure is something I have and it is chronic, there all the time 24/7, and there are never any brief moments of pleasure whatsoever.  Anhedonia is a disregulated stress response in the brain that turns off your pleasure and/or other emotions in which areas of the brain that are responsible for regulating (controlling and turning off the stress response), these areas of the brain malfunction.  The malfunctioning of these brain areas is what results in the stress response to perpetuate which then turns off your pleasure and/or other emotions since the stress response itself cannot be turned off.
 Therefore, a very important question I have is that those shots that outbursting psychotic patients receive that calm down their stress response, will one of these shots work on my anhedonia since my anhedonia is a stress response?  I know that those shots only work temporarily on those outbursting psychotic patients.  But wouldn't the only reason why it only works temporary is because their stress response is needed?  For example, if a patient were in a hospital with a ferocious lion trying to attack this patient 24/7, this patient would outburst with panic and such.  Then, of course, once this patient is given a shot, that would calm down his/her stress response.  However, since that stress response would be needed since it is a protective survival response against the lion, this patient would soon outburst with panic and such later on once again.
 But since the only reason why the stress response perpetuates in anhedonia is only because of the fact that it can't turn off and that it is actually an unnecessary stress response, then if you were given a shot that turns off this stress response, then shouldn't that mean that this stress response should remain turned off?  In other words, if I were given a shot right now that were to rid of my anhedonia in that given moment and return my pleasure, then shouldn't this mean that my anhedonia should now be gone completely (cured) and that I should now have my pleasure back?  If one of those shots somehow doesn't work on the anhedonia in that given moment, then what about a tranquilizer gun (those guns they use on wild animals to calm them down and to calm down their stress response)?
 Now I realize that if it were that simple, then we would have patients cured of anhedonia in no time.  However, there might be the slim chance that I am right here.  But I'm not sure whether my anhedonia is an abnormal physiological change in my brain (a disregulated stress response) and/or a needed natural response that has turned off my panic from the panic disorder I was having in the past in order to protect and numb me from the overwhelming panic.
 Now what I'm saying here might be no different than me saying something such as that someone who has severe chronic depression due to any abnormality in his/her brain such as a chemical imbalance, malfunctioning of areas of his/her brain that regulate stress, etc., that this person can then go into a hospital, get shot up, and have their depression cured.  Now if this person's depression is a natural response, then it would be both a natural response and a disregulated stress response (since his/her depression is also the result of malfunctioning of parts of his/her brain).  And, of course, if his/her depression wasn't the result of malfunctioning of parts of his/her brain, then this depression would just be a natural response (such as a response to a stressful life event).  But wouldn't giving this person a shot cure him/her of his/her depression in that given moment and that the only way for his/her depression to come back and become chronic once again is if the natural response version of the depression were to initiate which would then obviously result in the disregulated version of the depression to also occur (providing that this patient has malfunctioning brain regions to make this depression a disregulated stress response to begin with)?
 In other words, if someone were to become chronically depressed due to a stressful life event (the natural response version of depression) which now has become a disregulated stress response (the unnatural response version of depression) in which that stressful life event is gone out of this person's life, but he/she still feels depressed anyway.  And that if this person were to then go to the hospital and get shot up, wouldn't this cure him/her of his/her depression?  And that he/she will remain cured as long as he/she does not have another episode of depression in his/her life since having another episode (another natural response version of depression) would result in this depression becoming a chronic disregulated stress response as well?
 So what I'm saying here is that if my anhedonia is just a physiological change in my brain (a disregulated stress response), that giving me a shot should cure it and that I should remain cured as long as there is no more significant stress in my life that could result in another episode of anhedonia (another disregulated stress response).