Mid-life crisis..?  Was i that bad that he had to stop loving me and leave?  The nights are the worst.  I can't sleep in our bed, when i reach out for him he isn't there.  No matter how much i want him back i know he won't be back again.  
 We worked side by side all these years.  There were some jobs we did that it was only him and i.  Once we built a road and a house pad in a place that the forest service engineers said it couldn't be done.  We moved in two halves of a mobile home 12' x 60', over a flowing creek, up a sharp turn, up a steep road to the place where we set it.  The owner wanted it to be bigger and we split it in half with an 8' gap in the middle, framed it up, put on a new roof, built a septic system, hooked up utility lines and set a generator because there was no electricity to the site.  It was him and me.  He ran the back hoe and i ran a loader, drove the dump truck.  They said it couldn't be done.  While we did the work it drew a crowd and people took pictures of that event.  It only took 7 working days, 12 hrs. a day, but we accomplished it.
We played together.  Rode quads, camped on the dunes, took all the back roads and jeep trails and i rode behind him on his street bike.  He bought me an old MG, we worked on it together.  Rebuilt the engine, painted the engine compartment, cleaned & polished everything.  It won prizes at car shows.  
We ran a business together.  i would do the bids, takeoffs & the accounting.  25 employees.  over 60 houses, streets, paving, utilities, all of it.  We liked working together.  At night when we came home i would cook and he'd help me clean up the kitchen.  We always went to bed at the same time.  We slept close together, often wrapped in each others arms.  if i was sick he was there.  when he was sick i was there.
  Now that's all gone?  How can that be?  32 years washed away.  One day he says to me, "I love our ranch, i could never imagine living anywhere else."  Then it all changed. 
Now he says he doesn't love me anymore, maybe he never did.  He wants his freedom.  He's moved away to Las Vegas.  He calls me less and less, only twice in a month.  Each time i talk to him he is distant, irritated to talk to me.  I tried to talk to him about what he was going through, it only irritates him more.  I see him in a dark place, i don't think he knows what to do.  He's spent up all of what savings we had left on an infatuation with my niece.  A person who has a severe case of OCD, the total opposite of me.  She has rejected him and now he's depressed.  I don't know what he's thinking, he's not the same person.  
  The pain of this loss is to great to live with.  I don't know how i'll make it without him.  Financially it seems impossible.  I'm to old to get a job again.  I've tried but no one wants to hire me.  
  So, today i fed the horses, ran the cows into another pasture, fixed the power gate, but none of it has any meaning now.  i go about daily chores but its getting to difficult to do anything.  He was my best friend, my lover, my husband.  We raised 6 children.
  What happened?  Is this some bad dream?  i can't reach over and touch him.  I've always loved his rough working hands.  His beard, his balding head.  Now he's gone.  My life is over.