Hi.  I want to know what is going on with me.  I am a 21 year old male. when I was a freshman in college, the the first girl I ever really fell in love with broke up with me.  When that happened it seemed as though I went into a major depressive spell.  It seemed like it lasted my entire sophmore year.  IT seemed as tho what got me out of it was moving away for a summer which I did, and worked in North Carolina as an intern.  Things went great there.  IT seemed like because I didnt have the option of thinking about her or seeing her it went away. Me feeling good about my life lasted for about the last year.  Noe tho, it seems I never feel whole or ok with myself without somebody else in my life.  Why did I loose my independence?  I should also add the fact that I smokedweed.  It never used to be excessive but not that I think about it I started smoking more because of my girl friend that dumped me. Im getting my engineering degree and have one year of school left.  For some reason it feels like I am never happy with what I have.  I am a person who over-analyzes everything.  The last year or so of my life I felt like I was happy.  I recently quit smoking weed after smoking since I was about 18.  I never thought that was a problem until I started smoking it daily about 7 months ago.  I think I liked weed so much more so for the fact that it allowed my mind to not think about the bad things in my life.  I have difficulties controlling the thoughts in my head for some reason.  As I said, it seems as though I am never happy with what I have in my life.  It has now been 2 weeks and 5 days since I last smoked and while I feel like my head is a little clearer, I still feel as tho I am depressed.  the week after I stopped smoking I had very bad panic attacks and actually went to the doctor.  He prescribed me zoloft and xanex.  I took the zoloft for 3 days and I think it made the anxiety worse.  I also just couldnt handle the side effects. really bad diareaha, insomnia, no libido, etc.  Recently it feels as tho the depression is lifing a little bit however it still feels as tho I am almost 'stupid'.  No concentration, conecting my thoughts has become difficult, just overall not as smart as I once thought I was.  The anxiety attacks went away just cause I think I realized that it was only an attack and not the end of the world.  I havnt taken a xanex now for a while.  At least a week.  Another thing I should point out is that I have no Work ethic anymore!  This is something that bothers the hell out of me.  In high school, I played football, wrestling,baseball, was a good student, etc.  All things that took work.  Last year I also did well in school.  but as I said, Lately I have not been able to focus on anything.  I have been asking myself question after question...'Am I depressed?  Do I have ADHD?  Do I have OCD?'  I have talked to couselors and what not and for some reason it seems as tho I analyze them analyzing me!  Cognitive therapy I have tried and that doenst work the best either.  I do not want to sound arrogant but it almost feels like my head is to smart for those tricks.   It's as though my mind will not believe it.  I can take myself out of my body and empathize with myself (if that makes sense at all)  I tell myself-what do you have to be depressed about?  You have family that loves you, you are smart, you are almost done with your college degree, you have friends, etc etc.  Why do I feel like nothing is ever good enough????  Like I am missing out on something?  ugh.  And now that I look back at this post I realize how unorganized it is.  It's like my thought process is gone!?  I guess I am afraid that there are things wrong with me but I do not want to take medication.  I have always not wanted to take a pill to make it go away because it is just a quick fix.  But then I ask myself if me smoking weed was my form of takin a pill?  I just dont know ne more. If there is someone who can make sense of any of this, feel free to respond.  I am sure there are things I am leaving out.  OH--last night I began taking St. Johns Wort.  That seems to have lifted the mood a little bit however I still have no desire to work or do anything at my job.  Anybody have any advice?