I don't know what to do. I've been severely depressed lately and have been having suicidal thoughts on a daily basis. These thoughts can haunt me for hours on end. I can't sleep. I just can't. I don't have time. I stay up all night working on school work and studying, or just crying and having panic attacks in my room by myself. I've been out of school for two months due to weekly panic attacks, which can vary from hysterical crying and hyperventilation, to crying hysterically, hyperventilating, and finally blacking out, leaving my body limp. This is due to my panic disorder. I also have hypothyroidism due to anorexia. I eat better now, but I'm still very thin and still have anorexic thoughts. My anorexia wasnt because I wanted to be thin, it was because I hated myself and wanted to hurt myself. It was because I wanted control in my life, and I could control my weight. It was bittersweet. Sometimes I think about going back to that, just because I want to hurt myself. For now,  I stick to purposely bruising myself as well as pulling out my eyelashes and hair. My mom doesn't know I bruise myself, because I hide it well, and I bruise easily anyways so it makes sense. I have a doctor's note for being out of school, and my school has been very cooperative and compassionate. They recently started giving me my work to complete from home, but exams are this week and I'm still behind. I've always been a straight A student and still am, but everything that has been going on has been getting in the way of my education. I'm also moderately agoraphobic. I only leave the house to go to doctor appointments and to help my mom grocery shop because she has a bad back. I'm always discreet when I go places and try to hide out of terror. I'm terrified of school. Not of learning, but of leaving my house and being around so many people by myself. I feel vulnerable and I get the chills, yet still sweat, and my heart races. I don't know what to do because I have to go to my school to take my exams but I just can't. I'm thinking that if I'm going to kill myself now would be a good time. I have a therapist but my mom has been sick and hasn't been able to take me for three weeks and Ive only ever seen my therapist once. My mom has a lot of mental issues too and I hate to bother her with mine. And when I do talk to her she just tells me that she doesn't know what to do. My dad works out of state and only comes home an average of 4 days a month which is really hard for my mom, and also has made me uncomfortable with talking to him about my problems, so I don't. I don't usually tell anyone. I don't want to hurt myself but at the same time I do,  and I just don't know shy to do. I need help but nobody can help me so I really think leaving this life would be best. But I believe in God and I don't want to go to hell and I don't want to hurt anyone. I just want to be invisible or just rot away or something. I just need help. Please help.